Orange Lounge Radio
Who's your hosts? DarkSakura, Skie, and Loki
Another year of making your gaming memories come true has finally arrived. We're getting this year started with the explosive mod announcement everyone has been waiting for, an homage to a recently departed Rockstar, and more.
OLR 2016 starts right now on the show, where every gamer has a voice.
Orange Lounge Radio
Hello my friends out there on the internet, and welcome back to another week of the show where every gamer has a voice. It is Orange Lounge Radio, tonight live on January the 3rd of 2016, our first episode of 2016, with episode number 626 of our show.
Joining you here live in our studio in Sacramento, California are myself, Rob Roberts, you might know me on Twitter, at Skie, S-K-I-E, and joining me in the studio, say hello to DarkSakura, or Jamie Summers.
I need a wheelbarrow.
A what? A wheelbarrow?
Yeah.
For what? What are you going to haul out of here?
Roll me around the house, because I'm all full of udon.
Oh, because you've been eaten.
Noms.
Usually dinner time, right before OLR.
So good.
Hey, guess what? Tonight is episode 626, right?
Chicken butt.
Tonight is episode 626. It's my birthday. It's my birthday show.
Oh yeah, I got you something.
Oh, yay! Cool, I got a present for my birthday show.
I got Loki something too.
What? Hey, Loki doesn't get presents on my birthday show. Alright, while she's digging, I will also introduce over there, Techmaster Loki.
Hi.
Hi, happy birthday to both of us, I guess, right?
I guess, yeah.
Oh, this must be like a holiday thing.
Oh, sorry.
I'd love to. Oh, cool. I'll take Loki's present as well, since Dark Sakura just threw it at me.
I threw it to him, and physics intervened.
First off, since this is radio, I'll just say Dark Sakura put a little penguin sticker, and she made out the card to the whole family.
She put to Rob, Alan, and Sanrio.
Yes.
Which I love that, so.
I might have just put Matt and Ellie on there, but I don't know how well your kids read.
They don't read very well, but that's alright. I can read too.
Aww, thank you for the card, it's very lovely.
Welcome.
Yay, there, that was great radio, live on air, opening gifts.
We need to read your cards to people.
Good times.
When I hear a story, once upon a time, I peed on your tree just now. Hope all of your holiday stories are happy.
Mine says jingle all the way, and then when you open it, it says nobody likes a half-assed jingler.
Now, if this had been Grandpa from Hoard House that had got me this card, I'd open it up and it would say nobody likes a half-assed, and that would be crossed out and it would say ginger.
So, if you know Grandpa and his sense of humor.
Yes.
There it is.
Although I was thinking like a dingle or something.
Alright, so did you have a good New Year, Dark Sakura?
Well enough.
Yeah, I know you guys had a little festive get together, play some games and stuff.
Yes, we played games.
Yay.
I hurt myself.
That's always a good way to ring in the New Year with video games.
And pain.
Have you seen that meme that's floating around the internet where it says the gamer on New Year's Day and it's like 11.50 PM and dude staring at the computer gaming.
This is 11.59 PM, dude staring at the computer gaming.
And then midnight, he's holding up a firework and then 12.01, back to the computer.
So it's like, you know, I think a lot of you guys probably saw this on Facebook.
We turned on the ball drop.
Do you?
And then got tired of looking at Carson Daly and all these other people who we had no idea who the fuck they were.
And I was like, why aren't we watching Kathy Griffin?
I actually have to admit, I was a little surprised at the thing I went to that we didn't have Kathy Griffin and Anderson Cooper on.
Because I sort of thought that was kind of like required television on New Year's Eve these days.
I love them.
Yeah, they're pretty awesome.
Rest in peace, Dick Clark.
I mean, you know, you had to pass the baton to somebody.
He's passed it to two fabulous people.
That's right. Even though technically he passed it to Ryan Seacrest, but you know, screw him.
Uh, Loki, you've been gone for a couple weeks.
I know you did like a late holiday thing, so that's why you missed last week's show.
But you're back, even though you sound a little sick.
Yeah, I'm back with my kid's disease.
That's always fun.
It's just a chest cold now. It's like, you know, it's on its way out.
When the kids get you sick.
Did you have a good New Year too?
I was playing my son's video game.
Yeah? What's your son's video game?
Disney Infinity.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, so now we have a figure thing now.
Did you get the 3.0 yet or are you still working on 2.0?
Well, technically we have 3.0. He got from Santa 2.0.
But I downloaded 3.0 because one of the figures that Santa brought for my youngest son was Olaf.
And that's a 3.0 figure, so you kind of need it in order to play that.
So it was like, it was on sale. It was like $17 or something.
You know, so they only play in the toy box anyways.
He's like, I want to do the levels.
I'm like, fine. So he has a ton of characters that Santa purchased used at GameStop because they had a sale for, you buy two and you get three free.
Oh my, oh that's pretty good though.
Yeah, and they're like $7 to $10 each. It's like, dude.
They have a ton of those. But I got to admit, even I want some of those Disney Infinity figures.
Like, I think I've caught a little bit of the Star Wars mania. Have you seen the new movie yet, Loki?
Still haven't seen Star Wars yet?
I haven't been to the theater to see it, but yes.
Uh oh, shame on you.
Hey, no, no. I wanted to go to the theater to see it, but realistically that's probably not going to happen for a long time.
And so I wanted to see it before it got spoiled for me on the internet.
I will try very hard not to judge. I can understand.
I would still, I still very much want to go see it in the theaters, but it's just, I've managed this long without seeing the spoilers.
And like I started seeing spoilers, like actually what it was, it was a spoiler on Facebook.
I'm like, are you fucking kidding me? Like the headline was the spoiler. I'm like, are you fucking kidding me?
Like I got to watch this now because this is going to get only worse.
Yeah. So, so you watched it.
So everyone watched it.
Well, I got to say, I caught a little bit of the Star Wars mania from, from all that, even though I was never, you know, super into Star Wars.
I hate saying I was never into Star Wars because that makes it sound like I hated it. I didn't hate it.
Well, I didn't like the prequels, but nobody did.
I appreciated the trilogy for what it was.
And, but you know, I wasn't like, oh my God, foaming at the mouth crazy about seeing the new one, but I got to admit it was really good.
And there is a part of me where it's like, okay, I do kind of want, I want a Poe figure really, really bad.
And I do want a Kylo Ren and I want Rey and you know, I'm Finn. I want all the new characters because they're all really cool.
So there's a part of me that's like, oh God, do I want to get into this Disney infinity thing?
But I can already like feel the eyes of Alan's judgment because just the other day I took a picture of my updated amiibo collection.
I'll be the first to say it's pretty fucking disgusting. My amiibo collection.
Let me just put it this way. You're not a child. You're probably not going to find much in this game.
I mean, you can design levels and stuff and you can make like intricate stuff like that, but the gameplay is pretty kind of meh.
It's a little bit boring. I still was leveling up my, because I also purchased a figure to go along with it.
I also purchased a Sam Flynn. So I was leveling up my Sam Flynn character.
Yeah, I got to see and thank thanks to you. I have a Tron figure that I have to have to work on in the game.
So we'll see. I don't know. Going to a chat room. We do tape live every Sunday night at the Voice of Geeks Network, vognetwork.com.
And if you are listening live Sunday night, six o'clock Pacific, nine o'clock Eastern, right after the Bobby Blackwell show,
we encourage you to head on over to our chat room. Live.vognetwork.com is where you can chat along with us.
Or if you're old school, you can use IRC and go onto the game search, because that's all the website is, is a fancy front end for IRC.
So you go to IRC and you get on the game search network and we're in channel VOG, V-O-G.
And there's actually some chatters wishing me a happy birthday. Thanks you guys, except it's not really my birthday today.
But it's episode 626. My birthday is June 26. That's why I was saying it was my birthday show. So it's not really my birthday.
If there was any consolation, there was a really kick ass Deadpool trailer on Christmas.
There you go. I guess. I don't know what that has to do with my birthday, but Ryan Reynolds, I guess, maybe.
Deadpool?
I'll see the Deadpool movie. That looks like it's going to be fun. We'll see.
Let's see, looking at some other comments in chat over at live.vognetwork.com.
Shehulk is in our chat saying, it is actually a great era for movies right now with Star Wars and the Hateful Eight in theaters and 70mm.
You know, I know we're a video game show and not a movie show, but let's be real, the two go hand in hand an awful lot.
And I got to kind of agree. There's a lot of buzz around movies this year. Probably more so than games, let's be real.
Or this, excuse me, this last year. I have to get used to the whole concept of 2016 now because you know I'm that guy that's going to be still writing 2015 on his checks for a month.
The two times a month I have to write a check.
But anyway, this era right now, this end of 2015 was really, really good for movies, I think.
And I don't know if it was as good for games as it was movies. Not to say all the games sucked, but I just feel like we've had some bigger.
And we were talking about this a little bit last week's show. We've had some kind of bigger years for games.
I feel like a lot of the stuff that could have really pushed this year over the top got delayed to 2016, but I guess that kind of happens every year, right?
And so it goes.
But I will agree that movies have helped subsidize the entertainment an awful lot there.
And Bobby Blackwolf in chat, yeah, I knew I was going to get called out on that, says, Rob writes checks?
Are they ones his body can't cash? No, there's certain things I still have to write checks for. Like the landlord doesn't take credit card. I have to do checks for that still.
Why would you pay your rent with credit card?
I've heard of people doing that as far back as when I was in college. Some people did that.
That just strikes me as kind of irresponsible.
Money's money. Well.
But it's money you don't own.
I mean, like, what about like debit card, credit card? That's what I mean.
Yeah, that's what I mean. A lot of people would do with that. Well, and if times are tough, I've heard of people doing it.
But anyway, that's another issue for another time. But yeah, so there are still the reasons to write checks, but it's very, very, very few.
Let's see. Going to our chat for some more comments. One more over at live.voggenetwork.com.
Brad from Pod Culture giving a hearty, Fuck Deadpool. He's Green Lantern.
It's true. You have him in both universes, DC and Marvel.
Yeah, except the Deadpool movie is actually going to be good.
We'll give him a chance. We'll give him a chance.
Alright, since we were just talking about 2015, you know, last week on the show, we had a pretty full house here.
We had myself and Dark Soccer, Flaco Jones and Shane Olinko were here in studio joining us.
We had a nice little round table talking about our favorite games of 2015, but with Loki being gone, we were not able to hear his picks.
So I wanted to give Loki a chance to go over his favorite three games of 2015. Out of curiosity, did you hear last week's show?
Nope.
So you don't know what we picked. Well, we'll tell you what we picked as you reveal yours here.
So let's start with number three. What was your favorite, third favorite game of 2015 and why?
You know, honestly, that's the thing. I couldn't remember three games I played during the year.
I mean, I played, I remember I played the last few months, but like, what was I playing earlier this year?
I think I was working on my game for a lot of time.
You were. You were working on your game a lot. If you go back to the gaming weeks and so forth, would you come up with something?
Yeah, I mean, I guess. God, if I had to pick a third game, I would say Just Cause 3, maybe. I mean, honestly, it's going to be a good game.
I just can't play it right now because the load times are ridiculous, but I love watching people play it and the videos and the glitch views are fucking crazy.
And I think it's hilarious.
You do love your glitches.
Oh my God. Now that's where we'll get to my number one pick.
Yeah, I mean, I love, love that game. Just Cause 2 is pretty fun and just watching what they're doing with 3 and I do want to get more into it.
And it was one I was looking forward to most of the year. I'm just, you know, once I was playing it and trying to grind through some of the missions and taking three minutes between each one, I'm like, dude, this is ridiculous.
I got to just stop playing this until they fix this. And maybe they have. I don't know. I haven't gone back to it. So that would be my number three.
All right. So, uh, so Just Cause 3 is Loki's number three. And as a reminder, uh, mine was Everybody's Gone to the Rapture was my number three and Dark Soccer's I believe was Undertale if I remember right. So there we go. So there's our threes.
So Loki, how about your number two favorite game of 2015?
My number two game and like, I don't even know if it's my favorite, but it's the one I've been playing probably the most. Ingress.
I knew it. I called it last week. I fucking called it last week. By the way, we predicted what your top three would be.
All right. All right. Fair. Okay. So Ingress and your top three.
And it's only because I've been playing it quite a bit. Actually this week I've been pretty, you know, lethargic with it. I just haven't really wanted to do anything.
Like, in fact, I was like driving over here today. I'm like, oh, hey, there's a field. And I'm like, yeah, but my, my bursars are in a capsule. Well, I've got some level six ones. Tap, tap. Yeah, fuck it. I just don't want to do anymore.
I'll hack this instead. Um, so yeah, I mean I played quite a bit of that and it's got me out to visit many parks.
And cemeteries? Have you done cemeteries?
I haven't done cemeteries yet, but lots of parks. And now I don't have any time to do it because my schedule's changing again.
So I'm going to be working Monday through Friday and off on the weekends. Whereas I had Thursday to kind of do whatever the hell I wanted. I don't have that anymore.
So real life sucks sometimes. Yeah, you do.
Oh well. So that's that. And then of course number one's going to be Fallout.
I think I already got ruined. So number two for Loki was Ingress. My number two was Rocket League. Dark Soccer's number two was Animal Crossing Happy Home Designer, if I remember right.
Alright, so your number one, as if this is going to surprise me at this point, Loki.
Fallout 4. Because that's what I've been playing the most of recently. And it's entertaining. I find this as entertaining as Skyrim. I mean it's just taking up a lot of time.
And like Skyrim, thankfully they have perks to allow me to walk around fully encumbered because I'm just picking up every piece of garbage on the ground and carrying along with me.
In case I need it. I'm like a hoarder in that game.
The weight restrictions in those games always bother me because in the same way I have to hoard everything.
You get perks though and eventually you can get to where you can actually fast travel with being over encumbered and also you can use your action points to move.
I'm just used to the vast majority of JRPGs where every character is bringing around a bottomless pit or something to carry all the items in the world.
So that's why I always do that.
Yeah, I mean in Skyrim I used to have to make multiple trips and I'd have to glitch it to just get an armor that would have like plus carry 99% or something like that.
But this one I can't because it's on console so far.
So right now I'm just kind of doing that.
I mean there's glitches where you can get your companions to carry extra stuff for you but I just don't want to.
This works just fine.
Because I've been playing that. I haven't really played much through the story.
I do want to go back and play it again as a complete asshole this time and just kill everybody.
Especially the Minutemen kind of bother me so I'm just going to go through next time just with I don't give a fuck what you want.
Oh hey, settlement. Kill everybody. Just kind of go through that way. That'd be fun.
Alright, so there it is. Loki's favorite game of 2015, Fallout 4.
I feel like for what an event game that was and how many lists that game is making, I have to admit I haven't touched it yet because I know how it's going to go with Bethesda.
There'll be a game of the year edition next year that has all the DLC included that's on sale.
I'll wait for that one. I don't have to be first in line for Fallout.
I still think you're going to get enough out of just the vanilla game. I don't think it's really a big deal.
That's fair.
You know, even if it's like Skyrim, their DLC is kind of hit and miss.
I mean, some of us are like, well, I don't really need that.
So I wouldn't go out and buy, I don't know, I would just, I'd buy just the vanilla game. I think you're going to spend enough time in it as it is.
Alright, fair enough. I would say Dark Soccer, we did a pretty good job predicting Loki's list because I'm pretty sure we predicted Fallout 4 as well.
Well, there's just very few games I played this year. I'm like, I was trying to think, well, what the hell did I play?
So before I tell you what we picked, any wild guesses what myself and Dark Soccer picked for our number one?
For our number one? I don't know. I'm guessing Dragon Age Inquisition.
She did! She did!
And then for you.
The DLC. The DLC in Dragon Age Inquisition.
And then for you, um, gosh, it's going to be, oh, shit, no, I know what my number three was. It wasn't just cause.
It was Mario Maker, but, you know, never mind.
Well, let's see, for you, I would say probably, I don't know, maybe like Splatoon, but I don't know if it's Splatoon.
I would say maybe, um, no, cause Diablo 3 came out so long ago. I'd probably say Splatoon.
Splatoon, close. You should have went with your first gut voice and went with Mario Maker. That's why I picked for my number one.
Well, no, that was my number three, I think, actually, cause Mario Maker's pretty fun.
Good job, though! You predicted ours about as well as we predicted yours. I think I said the Lego game he'd been playing would be on his list.
Well, the Lego game, no, that's funny enough. The new one's coming out in a couple weeks, so I'll be playing that, actually.
And I didn't include that, cause I think that I included last year, cause we're still playing it then.
But, dude, my son's put like 200 plus hours in that game already, in the Lego game. Like 230 hours, I think, was the last time I looked at that.
Wow.
So, I mean, that's ridiculous.
Alright. Well, as we transition from 2015 into 2016, a big thing we like to do usually in the first episode of the year is talk about our predictions.
We opted tonight not to do List List, which I know may disappoint some people, but we don't have any other extra people here in the studio with us tonight.
So, we thought we'd just do this a different way tonight. We'll bring back List List at some other point this month when we have a guest here in the studio about some other topic.
But I thought we'd talk a little bit about 2016 predictions, cause, you know, a lot of stuff from 2015 has been delayed into 2016, and this is shaping up to be a really interesting year in games.
One that could be pivotal, actually, and we'll talk about that in a minute here.
So, I'm gonna open up the floor to any predictions that my co-hosts or myself may have, but I do have, first off, I have like five kind of topics I wanted to talk about first before we open it up to that.
So, one big thing a lot of people are talking about, and by the way, I open this up to our chatters as well.
If you want to comment along with these, I definitely will read some of the comments in our chat, live.voggenetwork.com.
Alright, first thing I want to talk about, Nintendo NX obviously won't be its final name, but you hear a lot of buzz about it.
My question is, do you guys think it will happen this year, and what is it?
Nintendo NX, will it happen this year, and what is it?
I'm just expecting my bar of, you know, what they're coming out with to be extremely low.
It's gonna have a stupid name, because for some stupid reason they have these weird naming conventions.
I'm hoping it doesn't. I think it's gonna be just simply kind of like Wii U with a detachable gamepad that runs on some.
I think that's as basic as it's gonna be.
I'm kind of with you. I kind of think that the gamepad this time is going to be fully detachable as a gaming device.
And this might be why we don't hear a lot about the 3DS's successor.
Because I have this weird, funky feeling, and again, this is a Predictions episode, so we have our tinfoil hats in full swing.
I have a feeling the two are gonna be sold separately.
I think you're gonna have your main desk NX, if you will, that will play the games, and you can have a classic controller or whatever and play the games on that.
And then you can also have a portable Nintendo, and the two will link together for some features.
But it's not gonna be as essential, so to speak, for the system as it was on the Wii U.
And that 3DS or whatever the successor is, that handheld device, not only will it function with the desk one, but you will be able to take it wherever you want.
I kind of think that, and they're gonna be sold separately, and that's how they're gonna mask how expensive it really is.
Well, yeah, I mean, that and not selling the power supply with it.
I would hope that they would do something exciting. I'm just, I just don't expect that anymore, unfortunately.
Do you think it will make this year? You know, we have supposedly a Zelda game on the horizon.
No, I think it'll be spring of 2017.
So we could have a console release in the spring, which we don't see very often.
It was initially announced for fall, but it's gonna get pushed to the spring.
I think something really funky will happen where the desk comes out in the winter, and the handheld comes out in the spring.
They don't release at the same time, so they can pull your money twice.
I just have this weird feeling that's how it's gonna break down, but we'll see.
And the reason, again, the reason why I'm saying this and where I'm getting this from is I'm going back to way back when they first revealed the NX, and they were kind of talking about that ecosystem for Nintendo.
I just sort of think they're gonna try to bring the handheld, which they've always been very dominant in, and the living room consoles more together into one system.
I think that's what's gonna happen.
Darsakha, any predictions on your end for the NX? Do you think it's gonna happen this year, or what do you think it is?
I think they'd like for it to happen this year, but I don't know that it will.
I think it's gonna sit in limbo, and I also think that the goofy name thing, the convention will stay, but that's also been a positive marketing ploy in the case of the Wii and the Wii U, is the fact that, yeah, the name sounds goofy, but you don't forget it.
It instantly sticks it in the head. It's something that you've got a connotation to, so I think that Nintendo's seen success with that plan and will keep going at it.
I don't know. That's just any name, though.
I think for Wii, it worked. For Wii U, it didn't, and because Wii U's name was too similar to Wii.
But I think the silly name thing, for as much shit as we gave the name Nintendo Wii when they first announced that, yeah, for what you're saying, I think that worked.
But I think I could see them doing a silly name thing for the new console, but it's not gonna sound anything like Wii. It's gonna be completely different.
And if it is these two things coming together, it's gonna be something like, I don't know why, but the image I get in my mind is like Pokemon Red and Pokemon Blue.
They're gonna be like complimentary things.
Can we, like, drop the Miis already? Does anybody give a shit about the Miis anymore? Because they're not utilized in most games.
The Miiverse is kind of...
They were all over Smash Brothers?
Yeah, Miiverse is kind of a thing. I don't know if the Miis are done.
I like the Miis. I play the stupid little Mii Plaza thing all the time. So yeah.
Alright, Kaijuto in chat says, Miis forever. I love the Miis. Let's see some other comments here.
Sjoan Hunter Matt says, Nintendo will finally announce that must-have game to make people upgrade to the new 3DS.
Yeah, the new Zelda game.
Dungeon Buster says, if you combine the dev kit and production rumors from Foxcon late last year, they point to 2016 as the year it could come out, but that's a lot of heavy speculation.
Dungeon Buster also says in chat over at live.vognetwork.com, if I recall correctly, Iwata said over the summer at a shareholder Q&A to wait until this year's E3 for more information on NX.
Yeah, I think for sure we get a name and whatever the twist is about. This is Nintendo's little twist. What a twist!
We're going to get that at E3 because Nintendo is going to want to put it in front of developers soon enough where they can start developing for it because they definitely want third parties on board with whatever this is because we all saw what happened with Wii U.
The question is, does that necessarily mean it comes out over the holiday in 2016? I don't necessarily think so because if you think about it, Wii U was announced E3 20...
Sorry, I'm getting my ears fuzzy, but it was the E3 the year before it actually came out and that was because they wanted designers to be thinking about how am I going to use this tablet and the second screen, that whole thing to its full potential.
And we have that probably to thank for things like Zombie U and some of the...
I don't know, I remember when I first saw it, I was like, eh, that's kind of dumb.
I like this name, She-Hulk in chat says, it will be called the Nintendo Power. That would be a cool name. I love it, but I don't know. I still think it's going to be something where there's two names that complement each other, if that's even going to be right.
Well, speaking of Nintendo, here's my second topic on Nintendo, Nintendo Mobile. After a long resistance to mobile gaming, Nintendo is going to enter that market this year.
And I think we've heard, what, four to five titles planned for this year. The first one we know is Miitomo. We've heard a little, little, little bit about that.
How do you guys think mobile is going to work for Nintendo? Do you think it's going to be huge for them? Do you think it's going to tank? It's going to get lost in the shuffle? Do you think they need to not be doing this and should be focusing on their, you know, whatever NX is?
What do you guys think? Nintendo? Mobile? How do you think that's going to go for them? Loki?
I think it's just, what is it? It's going to be about as popular as it is now. I think that the mobile space, I mean, if people want to play Nintendo products, they're going to play those on Nintendo devices. I think that's kind of what their mindset is.
There's a lot of different properties out there on the mobile space. Like, I asked my coworker all the time, like, what the hell are you playing? I mean, oh my God, it's like Panda. I don't even know what the fuck it is. It's some puzzle, one of the billion puzzle games out there, but like, there's that many brands out there. It's just a big mess.
And don't get me wrong, Mario on like a mobile device would be pretty cool, except no buttons, so, you know, I don't know. I just think it's not going to make a huge difference either way.
I'm going to make a pretty bold prediction here, and maybe I'll be right, maybe I'll be wrong, but this is what my gut is telling me, and I'm going to say it.
I think Miitomo is going to be kind of a flash in the pan. Like, it's going to get a ton of downloads initially, and a ton of people are going to look at it right out the gate, but then I don't think it's really going to have the staying power. I think people will kind of move on to other things.
Pokemon Go, I think is going to be the biggest cellular phone game of all time. I think Pokemon Go is going to be the biggest money-making game ever released. I really do.
And I just, my gut, and it has nothing to do with my own ingress and the fact that the company is, I just, I say that because Pokemon has been a big reason for the Game Boy and the DS and those systems to do as well as they have.
I think you don't really want to underestimate the power of Pokemon in that regard. And I think the fact that they're coming out with something that's going to get people out there moving around and, you know, something kind of the family can do together.
It's going to be, we know it's going to be a kid visiting graveyards. I have a feeling, again, don't go ingress one to one with Pokemon Go. They're going to change it up a little, we'll see.
But I think they're going to really get that family element there. And, you know, when you consider that, what are some of the biggest mobile phone games we've had to date? Candy Crush, the OMG Pop, what the hell was that, Draw Something, what, Trivia Crack maybe, Flappy Bird.
You know, I think Pokemon Go stands to obliterate the shit out of all those things. I really do. I might be wrong. You know, maybe the whole real world aspect of it, in fact you do have to get up and move around and can't necessarily play in the house, may hold some people back.
But maybe Niantic's thought of that and maybe there'll be something you can do without going out and necessarily moving around. So, I mean, we'll see. We'll see. That's just what my gut tells me. I might be wrong.
DarkSoccer, anything you care to comment on Nintendo going mobile?
It's about time. I mean, honestly enough. They've seemed resistant to it for the longest time. And I think it's bound to happen. Now's a good time as any.
And I do want to make sure I make this clear because if I don't clarify this I'll get an email or a tweet correcting me on it. I do realize technically Pokemon is not Nintendo, it's Pokemon Company. However, come on, I still associate the two very closely together.
And the success of a game like Pokemon Go would only stand to benefit Nintendo. So that's why I still loop it in with Nintendo.
Going to our chat over at live.vognetwork.com. Kaijuto says Rob is talking crazy right now. Maybe.
Let's see. Dungeonbuster says a new mobile Golden Sun 2. You know, we don't know what those other mobile games are going to be. Are they going to be related to existing IPs like Mario, Zelda?
Although, I don't know. I think a platformer, I don't think is the best thing for a phone. Or is it going to be dormant IPs like I think we've all said on the show before.
Advanced Wars would be a great thing to have come back on mobile. You know, we'll see. Let's see.
SSG100Matt points out Pokemon Shuffle is huge on other devices though. Talking about another Pokemon game that's doing pretty well.
Let's see. Dungeonbuster says there will be five mobile titles total if I remember right. Miitomo is the first so there should be four more to see where they go.
That is assuming they don't get pushed back another year. And I think already, like weren't we supposed to have the, didn't they have that whole press conference in the first place to say we were going to do a mobile phone game this year being 2015 and that's not happening.
Here's Miitomo, it's the first one next year. So, things always get pushed back in gaming. Always. Always, always, always.
Alright, let's move on to my third topic. Third out of five. I think this is going to be a big one next year.
Virtual reality. I mean, we are looking at the imminent launches of things like the Oculus Rift, the PlayStation VR, possibly Microsoft's Hololens, 2016, which we can go over the whole VR AR thing but you know why I'm lumping it in the same bucket.
This stands to be a huge year for that sort of gaming but my question is do you guys think it's going to be successful? How do you guys think 2016 is going to treat virtual or augmented as the case may be reality gaming? Loki?
I'm really behind it but I don't think it's going to do well. I think it's going to do as well as well as connect. Everyone's going to get hyped about it. It's going to come out, kind of underwhelmed.
I mean, I think it's a great experience but the cost of entry is really high. We'll see what it comes out with, what the price is going to be but when you keep having the guy behind Oculus saying, yeah it's going to be expensive, the cost of entry is just going to be a big factor there.
You're going to run into PlayStation 3 type problems where I don't want to spend $500 on this, especially when there's not a lot of software out there. Why do I need this? That's going to be the big convincing factor.
Maybe the Samsung Gear VR might do a little bit better. I can see that doing better because the cost of entry is a lot lower plus it runs on mobile devices but unfortunately I don't think it's going to do that well this year.
If I give it a couple years though, maybe it'll take off. But right now, does it launch? I don't know.
Dar Sakura, any thoughts on VR gaming in 2016?
I pretty much agree it's going to go the way of the Kinect. I mean, it's a neat concept. Some of the games have been really fun. I just don't know if it's going to stick. They'd have to really do something to make it really uniquely different to make it stick. So, holiday time maybe?
My personal thoughts on this. When you're talking about Gear VR, you know what's funny? I really do think this. If Apple were to do that, they would know exactly how to tell people why they need it, and it would be huge. I don't know if they're going to go that direction or not. We'll see. That's my thought when it comes to that.
Yeah, and that's the thing. It would take something...
Apple knows how to tell people, you need this.
Well, a lot of people that buy Apple products don't necessarily... they're like, ooh, shiny, and they'll buy it.
Not necessarily.
That's my general impression. But yes, their products, though, kind of help push that market, so that could help.
Anyway, that's just a side thought.
Even the PlayStation 4, when the PlayStation VR comes out or whatever, that I think could help if the cost is low enough. Because in that way, the console's not that expensive, and hopefully the device isn't that expensive. That's a lot better than buying over a thousand dollar PC plus this.
PlayStation VR is really tough to call, and it really hinges on, are they going to have Wii Sports? And I don't literally mean Wii Sports. I mean, are they going to have that game that makes you have to get the VR?
The system maker.
Exactly. You know, like, Wii Sports sold the Wii. Say what you will about the other fantastic games on Wii, like Zelda and all that other stuff. Wii Sports sold the Wii. If PlayStation VR has Wii Sports, I could see it stands to do very, very well. It is really, really tough to call.
Obviously, I'm hearing a lot of good feedback, and you might remember a few weeks ago, we had Shane Alinko on the show, who was at the PlayStation Experience, and was completely sold on PlayStation VR.
So if they can get people to kind of do that and try it for themselves, I think PlayStation has the chance to do very well.
Well, and that's the bizarre VR game that I played. That was great. I mean, it was really fun. But, you know, I could see having something like that be more of a smartphone type thing. You know, something that you can maybe unfold, attach your smartphone to it, and then play.
You know, they even have View Master things for iPhone now.
Yeah. Oh my gosh, right?
Yeah. But, I mean, I see that being a thing, but it'd have to be something portable, you know.
So PlayStation VR is still really hard to call, but I think it stands to do well enough. I think what's going to be most important about PlayStation VR is that I see these really interesting things when I read random news articles, as I sometimes do on things like, I don't know, Business Insider, Yahoo, Google News.
And I see a lot of these, you know, industry, and I mean like finance industry, kind of talking about is this cycle of gaming consoles, is it going to be a shorter cycle than what we're used to? Meaning, can the PlayStation 5 possibly come out in 2017 or 2018, which would be a pretty short cycle?
And I kind of think no, because I think PlayStation VR is going to augment the life of the PlayStation a little bit. But again, it has to have those must-have games.
Yeah, I don't think they've pushed the hardware to the...
I don't think they have either. And I think, I kind of don't know why some of those stories report on that the way they do. I think things like PlayStation VR just stand to extend the life.
So PlayStation VR, I'm going to say it does well enough. I just don't know if that mainstream game is there yet, but that could change in the coming months.
Yeah, that's all it takes is one thing to get people hooked on it. And I mean, I really do hope it does well. I'm definitely excited about it, and I want to get in on that stuff. I don't have a PC to run Oculus, but I would like to build one.
And that's, you segue into my thoughts on Oculus Rift, is I really like it, but I kind of think you just called why. I don't think it's going to be huge. I think it's going to be more of a cult nerd thing, which isn't bad. There's a lot of cult nerd things that still make a lot of money.
I just don't know if I see it being super mainstream, and I think it's because of cost. You have to have the right computer to run it, you have to have the...
If they were able to do some sort of breakout box, like they're doing with the PlayStation VR, where it offloads a lot of the processing, that could help. I think if you could get it to run on just average devices.
But again, that's just a little silly prediction I'm throwing out. And again, I say Facebook is an interesting player in this, the way that I was actually talking about Apple a second ago. Facebook may have a magic way to kind of convince people they need Oculus.
One thing Oculus Rift has that other companies don't necessarily is that Facebook is in front of the majority of Americans every single day. Every single day, we're checking Facebook.
I obviously know that I don't have a Facebook, but realize the majority of folks do have that and are tuned into it every day. So Oculus Rift has a great platform to be talked about on. But we'll see.
And I would love a HoloLens once it's up to what they're showing us. Obviously right now there's that really narrow field of view, but as soon as it becomes to that full field of view where they're kind of making it seem like it actually is, then I'm on board with that. Because that looks awesome. It's just right now, not there.
Now here's my thoughts on HoloLens. And this may sound a little cruel, but I think it's going to fucking tank. And I think my reason for that, and it's not an anti-Microsoft sentiment by any means, I just think at this point we've already talked about two people getting into the game and I think HoloLens is going to be last.
And yes, I know it's AR versus VR, but I think they're going to be too late to the game. Microsoft has a track record that they won't support something if it doesn't catch on in that first year. Hello, game room. Hello, Kinect. Hello, and so forth.
I just, I mean, then again, to be fair, the Xbox division is under different supervision now. And maybe that will give HoloLens a better chance. And if HoloLens has their version of Wii Sports, then of course it's going to do fantastic. I just feel like it's going to be not enough too late. But that's how I feel today. My opinion may completely change by the end of the year.
I just, I'm very skeptical, thank you, Kinect, on what they show me on stage versus what the actual product is. Especially, especially now, when even up until right now they won't fucking admit that that narrow field of view is there.
Instead they do all this bullshit with this stupid rig on a camera that makes it look like it's fucking amazing. And the fact that they're going up to launch with this shit is why I'm skeptical about this.
It's, you know, it's just like the fucking Kinect videos where I'm going to scan my skateboard in and try on virtual clothes and shit. That fucking never happened. It didn't happen when Kinect 1 came out. It didn't happen when Kinect 2 came out.
I think you do raise, as mean as you're getting right now, I think you do raise a good point that if they don't advertise it the way it's actually going to be, that's going to only hurt them in the long run. I think that's something for everybody. This is not exclusive to Microsoft. This is something Sony needs to take notes on and so forth.
Anyway, let's see, going to our chat over at live.vognetwork.com for some comments. Tiger Claw says, do you think the whole VR thing is going to be overcrowded? One of those VR headsets is bound to fail and only one or two will survive.
Yes, and that's why I'm saying I think Hololens may not do it, but we'll see. Because Bobby Blackwolf in chat says it's also not primarily for games, the Hololens, it's more for businesses.
And that ended up being Kinect's kind of little twist that ended up making that interesting. I kind of think that Oculus Rift is going to be way more for the business end than we think right now on a video game podcast, but AR versus VR, there's going to be some different things that Hololens does.
I could maybe see that. I could see maybe the technology could go interesting places like arcades and theme parks and things like that. But I mean, we'll see. We'll see. Let's see other comments from chat over at live.vognetwork.com.
Let's see. SSG100Matt says, Loki rant level is at 8 of 10. Let's see. Tech 2030 says, I'm so done with console cycles. I'm all PC when it comes to the type of experiences that are on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.
Some things are exclusive to those consoles, though, that you have to give up in order to stay with PC. But he's certainly not the first person to give that perspective.
In PC, they just don't really make cycles. It's more of just upgrades in hardware and upgrades in demand by games. I mean, they don't just advertise that. It's not like, ooh, this is a new generation. I mean, it's just gradual.
Alright. Couple more quick ones here and then we'll move on. Number four out of five that I have. PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. How will the exclusives look in 2016? I think I'm actually going to kind of say, how does the games look in 2016 on these consoles? What do you guys think, Loki?
There's not a whole... I mean, I'm excited about a few things on PlayStation 4, really. I was only excited about Crackdown on Xbox One and I don't know at this point this far into it that I'm really going to pick up an Xbox One before Crackdown.
I say that now, though, but I don't know. I just don't think that's going to be there. That's going to be enough to get me over to Xbox as well.
PlayStation 4. I mean, they've got No Man's Sky, which looks pretty cool. Also, that new game event. I forget what they call it. The tech robot dinosaur thing. I mean, that looks pretty cool.
I don't know. And also the stuff that they haven't announced yet. I mean, obviously, I'm kind of interested to see what they have coming out. But a lot of the stuff that's supposed to be coming out in 2016 is stuff that has been kind of pushed and pushed and pushed. At this point, I'm not all that excited about it. I mean, I don't know.
For me, personally, I'm only worried about how fucking crowded the holidays are going to be this year. It's going to hurt some games that could stand to do really well.
I don't think they're going to be that crowded because anything that's crowded in there is going to get pushed to 2017.
I think, you know, you have all the things that you just named. Microsoft did a really good job of delivering exclusives this year and I think they'll do it again in 2016.
I think it'll be Crackdown, Quantum Break. I'm really looking forward to it.
Yeah, Quantum Break looks pretty good.
But I know Mass Effect is on the horizon for this holiday as well. I think EA is going to deliver on that. You all know that probably for Dark Sakura and myself, that's going to be the gaming calendar for at least a month, if not three. If not an entire year, right, Dark Sakura?
She's laughing at me.
And rolling my eyes a bit.
Any of your thoughts on the PlayStation 4 and the Xbox One releases and how that's going to look this year compared to previous years?
I have no fucking clue. I'm looking forward to Andromeda. I don't think we're getting an Xbox One. Dan wanted the Forza thing, but that boat sank.
To be honest, I mean, most of our gaming has been on our Wii U and my PC and my Mac. So I kind of think that they're going to have to do something really amazing, I think, to bring more people in.
Interesting, too, because I'm thinking about that comment that was just said about I don't get into PlayStation 4 and Xbox One because I have PC. Well, Wii U, hardly any of that you're going to get on PC. Although we do have a story later on tonight. It's kind of interesting. But anyway, I digress.
My thought for this year in game releases is it's going to be a very crowded year, especially if the NX does release this holiday. It's going to be an insane holiday. If the NX releases this holiday, it's going to be crazy.
You thought you couldn't play everything this year. This next year is going to be insane.
It's okay. Because it won't be in stores.
Because you won't be able to find it.
Because there will be a shipping issue. They'll be held up in customs or fucking, I don't know, turtles not swimming fast enough across the ocean.
And I swear to God, we did everything we can, but the demand is so high, we just can't possibly make enough. Every fucking time, Nintendo. Come on. You've been singing that story since, what, 2006? Come on. It's been like ten years now. You should figure this shit out by now.
You know, one interesting word that hasn't come up with Nintendo yet during this whole conversation is Amiibo. And that has really changed Nintendo. For better or for worse.
Yeah, they sell a fuck ton of figures that do absolutely nothing in games.
But, Loki, I've got to admit, I love the figures.
Yeah, that's cool. And the figures are cool, and they're profitable, and they're going to keep doing it because it makes tons of money for them. But support for the game, eh, whatever.
But I like my Animal Crossing Amiibo.
I like that it's a dippy little costume in Mario Maker. Whatever, cool. I like that.
Okay, well, those are some expensive fucking DLC costumes. It's like an 8-bit costume that really means nothing.
Loki, I'm not buying it for that. I'm buying it for the figure because I genuinely like the figures as a Nintendo nerd my entire life. I just think, like, have you seen the Palutena one? It is so well done. It is so, it's an awesome figure. I truly believe that.
So, anyway, Loki's looking at me. Alright, lastly but not leastly, number 5 on my list, and I had to ask this one, for 2016, what's it going to look like for Konami in 2016?
Will they save themselves, or what happens in 2016?
They'll be gone. That's it.
They'll be gone?
They'll have nothing coming out, so there's really no reason to bring them up, and no one's going to give a shit about them. I mean, that's it.
All that's going to happen is going to get drowned out by the fact that Kojima's going to have some really fucking amazing game. There you go, exclusive for 2016.
And, um, that's it.
Well, yeah, add Kojima's game to the list of shit coming out. Actually, I don't think Kojima's game will be up until 2017.
Well, probably 2017, but whatever. It's still, though, that buzz will be there, and everyone will just be like, what the hell is wrong with you, Konami?
They're going to guarantee Sony closes, or opens, or puts in a very sweet spot in their E3 press conference, whatever Kojima's working on.
They will blow the lid on that, because six months is enough time for them to get a little pre-rendered trailer out.
Yeah, I mean, that's going to be pretty awesome, but I just don't think anyone's going to give a shit about them anymore.
And even if they are still making games, it's just like, there's other companies out there that you don't fucking give a shit about anymore.
Like, does anyone talk about Majesco? Does anyone talk about fucking Atari?
No, because they've fucked over their customers with their shitty-ass games and policies, and no one gives a shit anymore about them, so they don't talk about them.
And Konami, if they don't have anything coming out, big like Metal Gear Solid, no one fucking gives a shit about Pro Evo. I mean, yeah, that comes out, and that's cool.
Maybe in this country, but in Latin America, Loki.
Okay, people who like football, that's fine. They may like that game and everything, but...
No one fucking gives a shit about Konami. I mean, at this point, it's like, why should I give a shit about them?
I'm not hoping that they turn around. They're too far gone at this point.
Darsakra, any predictions for Konami in 2016?
Pachi-slot!
Many, many Pachi-slot.
It's Silent Hill, and it's Metal Gear, and it's everything that stabs us in the heart.
Fuck.
My thought, and this is a wild shot in the dark, but this is just where I see it going, I think Konami will spin off the computer entertainment division.
I think they'll keep their slot machine and the arcade and the machines and all that. They're gonna keep that, but I'm gonna say they sell the home entertainment division, and Sega buys it.
And that's what happens in 2016.
What money does Sega have?
Well, Loki, it's not gonna be very expensive to buy what Konami's selling.
I'm sorry, I don't think Sega would buy anything like that. They don't have any money to spend on that kind of crap. They don't make anything from Sonic. So, I don't know.
Alright, there it is. Some comments over at live.vognetwork.com. Rama says the money will come from Sega Sammy.
You know who would buy that? Probably it's like Deep Silver. They're the ones that purchase the remains of companies.
I don't think a Western company buys it. I think a Japanese company buys it. That's why I went for Sega.
And William Murderface pointing out the Total War games make decent money.
Yeah, but not enough to purchase Konami.
Again, I don't think the going rate's gonna be very high.
Well, if the going rate's not very high, then a company that makes a lot more money is gonna outbid them.
Let's see, but a lot of folks more focused on the Kojima thing. Dark Tetsuya is saying the Kojima Productions game, that's gonna be epic.
Let's see, William Murderface says if I were Kojima and Konami did that, I would sue the shit out of them, and I think that is referring to the Kojima themed pachinko machine.
Well, you couldn't have a Kojima themed pachinko machine, but you could absolutely have a Metal Gear themed pachinko machine.
But then again, this year is also gonna be, what is it, fucking Shenmue 3. Remember, that's this year.
Oh, you think that'll actually come out this year?
Maybe.
Nah, 2017.
Updated E3, maybe a playable thing. 2017 at the earliest, I think.
Alright, before we move into our gaming weeks, any random fun predictions you guys want to throw out there for 2016? Anybody?
In gaming. And I opened this up to the chatters as well over at live.vognower.com.
I want a new Animal Crossing, like a real one. Just how much fun I've had with Amiibo Festival. They've got the assets there. They could easily do another Animal Crossing for the Wii U, and I think we'll see it this year.
Nah, I think that'd be for the NX at this point.
You know, with what I predict or threw out there about the NX, imagine if you could play your village on the TV and then you could take it with you wherever you go.
You know, that could make for a very interesting launch title for NX. We'll see. Loki?
I don't know. I mean, something Minecraft related, maybe? I mean, they've got that IP now. I mean, they released it on Wii U and that's okay. Will we see a sequel to Minecraft?
Minecraft 2?
Isn't there supposed to be a Minecraft movie coming out at some point? I mean, the Minecraft story mode is okay.
I don't know. I kind of hope that they finish patching the PC version, the Windows 10 version, because that client is fucking rocking. Just, you know, keep up the good work. That's all I'm saying.
Get the features. Get them in there.
Yeah, get the features in there, because the client is amazing. I love it. Because my PC's not very fast. My laptop runs awesome.
Alright, looking at our chatroom over at live.vog.network.com for some crazy predictions. Brad from PodCulture saying, Nintendo cuts a deal with Sega and the NX is the Dreamcast 2. If only. Can you imagine launching with a Mario and Sonic game?
All I hope, I mean, as much as I dig on the game, because I think that they've really gone in a stupid direction and it's so, I still can't help but play them. I really hope there's another Saints Row game coming out soon, because I do love that series.
It's just, I love the characters in the series. Just, it's really, just try to come into your own game. Stop fucking knocking off Crackdown at this point. I mean, come on. Just make your own game out of it.
Alright, we're a good 50 minutes into the show, so I think that's plenty of time for a kickoff topic. So, let's get into our gaming week. So, we're going to talk about the types of video games that we have been playing this week.
And then we'll get into the weekend news, which, as you can imagine, was a little bit slower than usual, but we still have a few things to talk about. But first, our gaming week. StarkSoccer, how was your gaming week?
A little busy. I mean, I played, we had Animal Crossing, Amoeba Festival. I'm still playing Happy Home Designer. We played some Super Smash Brothers. I've totally lost some of my Kirby skill.
What else did I play? A little bit of Dragon Age Inquisition. Not too much. Yeah, really just that. And if you want to go for non-video. Oh, actually, no, we did play some Black Knight 2000, because I was playing some pinball and some jackpot. So, there you go.
Okay. Loki, how about your gaming week?
Bobby's saying, don't make the game the fans want. Make the game that I would consider good. Hey, I considered Saints Row the Third good. It's just when they went fucking crazy with the superhero powers that they make any fucking sense.
Saints Row the Third was pretty good, except for that they, like, knocked off the bad guy super quick. And that's, I didn't like that. I thought they could have done a little bit better, but whatever.
Anyways, this week, or I should say the last few weeks, I played quite a bit of stuff. So, first off, of course, played Ingress, so did that. And then, I played lots of Fallout 4. I'm not really playing through the story portion, but there's so many side quests and everything that I've been just kind of busy doing all that.
And I've got, let's see, I've got Kate as my companion, who's completely maxed out as far as, you know, and then I get her perk or whatever. So, I switched to Nick Valentine, who's like the synth detective guy, which is pretty awesome. So, I'm switched to him. And then, I don't know, I'm just carrying a shit ton of garbage with me.
Like, I'm just dragging the Commonwealth in my pockets. It's ridiculous. So, you know, because I'm like, I'm over-encumbered anyways, I'm like, what's it going to matter if I just...
It's video game logic, it's fine.
You can carry 350. You're carrying 5,000. So, whatever. So, I've been playing that. And then, Eric, who wanted me to download Earth Defense Force 4.1, I did that. And then, he couldn't play, so I'm stuck playing that game now by myself.
I like that such a bad thing.
It's Earth Defense Force. This one's extremely cheap as far as the way the enemies act. I mean, it's even worse than 2017. Which, that's just the game. But it is frustrating sometimes. Like, it's like, here, let me ramp it up to hardest. I should be able to beat that. And they'll just get swarmed by everything.
But that's the game. It's insanely hard. So, whatever. But I've been kind of bouncing around with that a little bit.
I downloaded a game called Laser Life on PlayStation 4, which is the new game from the guys that did Bit Trip. So, it's like this Rez amplitude-type music game.
Oh, really?
And it's used like the analog sticks to move these two lasers around the screen. And then, there's like circles or whatever objects you have to hit with lasers. And you pull the triggers to the beat.
And so, you have to do that. And then, you're like syncing memories of this dead astronaut or something. I'm not really sure what the story is. But they've got that kind of going along with it. It's a little trippy.
The other thing I don't like about that, though, is it's hard to line up your lasers with whatever the targets are because it's very hard to tell perspective-wise where they're at on the screen.
So, that's a little bit frustrating. And also, with the analog sticks, it's really hard to kind of like, okay, I need it to be kind of half this way and a little bit up. It's just too hard to be accurate with it.
But I did pick that up for like three bucks. So, whatever. I mean, that's cool. I played quite a bit of Disney Infinity 3.0. My son's been playing the Toy Box stuff because he got 2.0. He doesn't want to play any of the levels. He wants me to play the levels. I'm like, no, you're playing the levels. I mean, the game is for you. You're playing those levels.
I'm like, come on. You should be doing that. But he has a ton of fucking characters. We got him so many characters. He's got almost all the Avengers except for Hawkeye and Hawkman.
Hawkeye and Falcon. That's what I'm thinking. So, Hawkeye and Falcon. I was searching all over the place for the Spider-Man set because that's really hard to find. I'm trying to pick up a lot of the 2.0 stuff now because it's dirt cheap and they're closing it out.
And so, he wanted Spider-Man. And so, I finally found the Spider-Man set. And then I picked myself up a Sam Flynn because I thought it was cool. And then he wanted a Yoda. So, he has a Yoda now too. And then my youngest son has an Olaf.
So, overall, he's got, I think, probably 15 characters already within a week. I almost bought another five the other day because they were so cheap. I was like, I kind of want to do that. But he was like, I don't really want these characters. I'm like, okay, fine.
Because they had Baymax and stuff like that. And I was like, oh, sweet. I can pick up that. And you have more characters to play as. But I'm like, oh, man, if I pick these up, my wife is going to be fucking pissed. So, when are you buying more of those four?
So, but, I mean, it's hard to, you know, complain when they're like five bucks each. I mean, seriously. So, he's been playing quite a bit of that. I played some of it just to level up the character.
And then finally actually getting to figure out how to actually use the Toy Box mode. I played some of the pre-made stuff. They had one that was kind of a knockoff of Splatoon that you play. So, that was okay. But, I mean, they can't really get that involved and deep. It's not like LittleBigPlanet or LittleBigPlanet or Mario Maker and stuff. I mean, you're very limited on what you can make in the game. But it's fun.
I'm sorry. This comment from our chat is too hilarious over at live.vognetwork.com. Bobby Blackwolf says, Loki is like the George Lucas of Saints Row. Don't make the game fans want. Make the game that I would consider good.
Well, yeah, that's what I read earlier. But, yeah, I mean, so. I would make a game that's a cross between Saints Row the third and Saints Row two. I mean, I thought those were great games. And you get the guys involved with, you know, the gentleman in the row. And I think you get a pretty good game.
It's the problem. The problem is they went with the whole matrix. It's the matrix problem is what I call it. They made Neo too fucking powerful too quickly. How the fuck do you go from there? Now the world, they fucking destroyed Earth and they...
Spoilers.
Well, come on. That's Saints Row the fourth. They destroyed Earth and fucking went to hell and in like another completely separate game. And they're traveling through time now. It's not fucking Saints Row anymore. It's a completely fucking different game.
They wanted to make a fucking space game or just knock off. I don't know what it was. But, like, it's not so much that Saints Row four was bad in that sense with the superhero powers. I'm fine with you having the crazy powers and stuff. But they just recycled the fucking third game all over again. That's all they did was recycle everything to make another game.
Alright, alright, alright.
It was an expansion that they made into a full game. That's all it was. That's my problem. But I still wanted another one.
Anything else for your gaming week, Loki?
Um, no.
Okay. My gaming week. Actually, not a lot of new stuff, but I've been playing like a lot of just stuff that I have. Like, you know, a lot more Baume & Essie 14 because I play that a lot. Diablo 3. I got Prap of the Rappa on PlayStation 4. Prap of the Two, excuse me, on PlayStation 4. And I was playing a little bit of that. So I kind of appreciate the whole PlayStation 2 classics. And I actually never did have that disc. Somehow I completely missed that game.
I have like two of them.
Isn't that weird that I just didn't have it? But I do now on PlayStation 4. So I was playing some of that.
The only new game that I really checked out this week was on Steam. I checked out a game called Distance, which is like a racing game.
But it kind of reminds me of a cross between the Tron Runar game with the look of it being all very neon and like Blur, I guess a little bit. Remember how Blur was kind of like, that game was really underrated, I think. I just don't know why that game didn't do better.
Distance kind of reminds me of that look a little bit. So it's early access, though, so it's hard to tell exactly what the full picture is going to look like for that game.
And I think it's weird that you control it with a keyboard because that only is going to allow so much for controls.
But okay, I enjoyed what I was playing with it. It's fast and you do absurd things like flying over ramps and you fly up onto another track and so forth.
So I'm liking how I'm getting all these fast racing games lately to fill in my gap since I don't have F-Zero with fast racing Neo on Wii U.
I have to show that to you at some point, Loki. It's kind of fun. You got to see that. So yeah, fast racing games. So Distance was new when I played that.
I also went back on Steam and I revisited a game and this came out probably a couple years ago at this point. I don't know why I randomly picked it up, but I did.
And it's a game called Before the Echo, which is a music game. And I believe it used to be called Sequence, but there was something with the rights holders to that.
I think Sequence is like a card game making company or something. They make Skipbo or one of those games, I think.
So basically, the makers of the computer game, Sequence, had to change the names. They call it Before the Echo.
And it's kind of like you're playing DDR step mania because you're not really dancing. You're using your fingers.
But the interesting thing about it is you have three different grids that you're having to cycle between.
So it's like you can do the step pattern in the mana well to regain your mana, but then you have to go over to the spell one to cast a spell.
Or you want to go to the defend one to hit those buttons or you're going to lose hit points.
It's kind of an interesting mechanic. It's not just straight up finger-finger revolution. It's a little more strategy into it as to when do I cast my spells and so forth.
So yeah, I just was randomly playing that and having a good time with it. So check that one out.
And that was pretty much my gaming week. I feel like I've played a lot of games, but not a lot of new stuff that's worth talking about.
MMO playing will do that to you. And of course I play Ingress as well, but I don't know. That's just kind of a given.
I've told every story I'm going to tell with that game. I hit level 13 in the past week.
Cool. I got my silver fueling one. The one for MU or whatever.
Good job.
I don't know. Everyone's like, I kind of wanted to go. Everyone did this big ole, they have different missions in the game. A lot of them they create banners.
So all the little icons for all the missions make giant banners. So there's one that's like, was it the Sacramento Enlightened one?
60 missions.
Yeah, it's ridiculous the amount of missions.
I haven't done it yet either. So when you decide that you want to do it, I'll go with you. And maybe we can drag Alan into it if he's off work.
That would be fun. I mean, I just don't know.
It takes five hours. So you have to plan. But let me know because I still need to do that one too. It would be fun.
Alright, so that's it for our gaming weeks. So we have some housekeeping and then we'll get into the news for the week.
Housekeeping is follow us on Twitter. Twitter.com slash O-L-R. And we are also on Facebook. Facebook.com slash Orange Lounge Radio.
As well as Google Plus. Google.com slash Plus Orange Lounge Radio.
And there will be no live show in February on the 21st, I want to say it is.
There will be no live show on the 21st of February because I will actually be back east. Yeah, it's the 21st.
I'll be back east at MAGFest. We'll try to tape something earlier in the week so that way, you know, because we had a lot of gaps in November and stuff.
Just due to various goings on. So I hate missing shows. So we'll try to fill that in.
Well, speaking of missing shows, all of you will be deprived of me next week.
Party! Party! No, I'm kidding. We'll miss you.
Yes, with everything you throw. Will your aim improve?
Yeah, well, considering where you're going, I have the right to be hateful and jealous. So you know what? Deal with it.
Last week of Bucket of Meat.
At Disneyland. Because you don't know what you're talking about when you say Bucket of Meat.
It's the Big Thunder BBQ. They serve all of their food in these little metal buckets. Hence, Bucket of Meat.
Sounds delicious.
It's amazing.
Do you get to eat it on the ride? Because that'd be cool.
Some people have.
It's going away because they're bulldozing it to make Star Wars land.
Technically, you can take like a go box and you can eat your ribs on the ride.
Maybe one of two good things will come out of this. One, they'll move it to California Adventure. I mean, why not? That'd be great.
Two, Victoria will steal me a bucket.
Two, perhaps they'll have Bucket of Jar Jar in Star Wars land.
And you can actually eat the flesh of Jar Jar Binks.
That would be poisonous. It'd be like eating Fugu.
A lot of people have seen that story floating around Facebook. I'm sure about everything they've got to close at Disneyland.
Either temporarily or permanently to make room for Star Wars land.
Well, the thing is, I actually do like the ranch there. But someone has decided to adopt all the animals there and start caring for them.
Yes.
But I thought it was, it's sort of getting rid of something that was part of, I think, Disney's vision, you know?
That you take care of, you know, it's educational on top of everything.
And that it provided, you know, a look into caring for animals and livestock and whatnot.
I know. I kind of liked it when it wasn't necessarily themed around a certain property lands.
That's the thing that kind of bugs me about it too. And don't get me wrong, I love me some Star Wars.
And Star Tours is one of my favorite rides in Tomorrowland. But A, they have Tomorrowland for things like that.
And B, yeah, I'm kind of the same as way. I think if they're going to do a land centered around one movie, it should be a California Adventure or a new park or something.
You know, because California Adventure has Cars Land and that works out okay.
Aren't they talking about making a third park anyways?
Yeah, and that's why I don't understand why they won't do Star Wars Land there.
Unless the new park is going to be an animal, like a SeaWorld competitor type of thing where it's an animal like Wild Kingdom in Japan, in Florida.
Or maybe a water park. It may not be the same type of park as Disney and California Adventure.
I don't know. It's kind of like a lot of that's very nostalgic. It's like, you know, 50's Disneyland type stuff.
I feel weird about a Star Wars Land in Disney proper. California Adventure, they can do whatever because that's kind of the more modern park.
But I feel very weird about how they're getting rid of stuff to make Star Wars Land.
And again, that's no disrespect to Star Wars. It's just a weird thing to have a land for at Disneyland. Anyway.
But I would be totally fine with them, you know, smoothing it over with me by creating some Tron specific rides.
Right? They could just move it over. The people mover turning into Tron bikes.
The people mover. Because there was that whole little Tron part in there.
And they do have, let's not forget the Disney. Is it Shanghai Disney or something? It has a fucking Tron light bike ride.
That was all over Facebook a few months ago when that opened. That looks fucking rad.
Or they should do one that's like, you know, Soarin' Over California. Let's just get rid of Soarin' Over California because it's fine.
But do that as the actual gliders? The light gliders or whatever they had?
Actually, if I remember right, Soarin' is going through a big closure. If it's not now, it's coming up and they are redoing the movie.
So it's going to be something new. So, I don't know. I don't think it'll be Tron because I think Disney is kind of distancing itself from that.
Why? It's so good!
It'll be Frozen. It'll be the Frozen take flight.
Fuck Frozen. No, seriously. I mean, Frozen's an okay property. That's fine.
But Tron is so good. I seriously was hyping up my son about the Tron figure and he wanted to play as him and stuff like that.
And I'm like, hey, let's watch Tron. And so he's like, no, I don't want to watch that.
I'm like, why not? It's so awesome. He's like, no, I don't want to watch that.
So I watched it anyways at the beginning of Tron Legacy. And then he watched some of the light cycle battles and thought it was cool.
But he still didn't want to watch it. But it's such a good movie. Why does that not get its own treatment and stuff?
Why are they just dumping on that universe? But, I don't know. Whatever other fucking movie they're making 80 billion of or something.
Cinderella 4 or something like that.
Dark Tetsuya in chat over at live.voguenetwork.com says, Soarin' over Hoth.
Look, I love Star Wars, but we need not to go the Frozen route with Star Wars.
We don't need to do everything. Let's not forget, Disney has a lot of cool stuff.
Let's give everybody a little piece of something.
Alright, anyway. Let's move on. We gotta get into some news.
We could talk Disneyland all night, but believe it or not, there was some video game news this week we gotta get to.
So, Loki, why don't you start us off?
There's no news. Unless it's Tron news.
So, apparently, Activision is in talks to acquire nearly all of the MLG.
I'm not sure if a deal has been signed so far, but apparently they're very close to signing a deal if they haven't already done that.
And so that's the thing. We haven't really seen a confirmation yet.
According to the rumors, they're supposed to be paying about $46 million in cash and assuming all liabilities.
And, of course, they're supposed to be, I guess, some of the shareholders will be getting money from that.
I'm sure this is just to kind of help with, you know, getting some more exposure for Call of Duty. Definitely that would help.
You know, they've been wanting to try to get that as an esports game and this will definitely help.
And, you know, Blizzard's mobile kind of helping get that a little bit going.
And, actually, a lot of the stuff Blizzard's been putting out would be kind of perfect for the esports scene.
Yeah, between Hearthstone, StarCraft, and Heroes of the Storm, they kind of have a lot of that stuff locked up.
And World of Warcraft arena mode is also very popular. And I think they're trying to get some of that in Diablo now.
Season 5 of Diablo is supposed to have this whole set dungeon thing that you can run and it's for a time.
And I wonder if that's something that they'll try to see what they can put in Diablo to make it more competitive, too.
Because right now, PvP in Diablo is nothing. It's there, but nobody plays it.
So, it'll be interesting to see maybe what they try to do with Diablo with that.
That's interesting. I mean, I hope that that makes maybe things come a little bit more mainstream.
Because I think a lot of people don't really realize that this exists, especially a lot of casual game players and everything.
It's weird, because when you say that, I agree with you, yet at the same time I'm like it's exploding online.
And the whole numbers for Twitch TV is sometimes outranking cable channels.
You know, I think more people watch Twitch TV than were watching Heroes of the Storm on ESPN2 or whatever it was on.
It's just interesting to me.
I'm Bobby Blackwell following that up in our chat over at live.vognetwork.com saying ESPN fans know esports exists. They bitch about it.
But is that a conflict, though, with a game maker owning the game competitive branch as well?
Yeah, I can see some conflicts of interest, but it depends how they treat it.
Is it a conflict of interest for some of these cable companies that own certain things? I don't know.
I guess MLG isn't the only one out there, but you can certainly see where MLG will probably prominently feature the Activision products.
And maybe a little less emphasis on things that Activision doesn't do, like fighting games.
If you don't like it, then I'm sure someone else will come out with a competitor.
Change the channel. If you don't like it, change the channel.
Bobby Blackwell, though, pointing out it would be worse if a company which sponsored a team also owned the esports federation.
Because then I guess you'd be getting into a little bit of the whole that you don't want to favor the competitors, because then it makes the sport look rigged, basically.
Alright, let's move on and talk about a game announcement from this week.
An old game about to be made new again, sort of.
Final Fantasy IX has been announced that it will be coming to PCs and phones in the next year. Or this year, as the case may be.
I can't tell you how many times I saw the headline, and I was like, ooh, Final Fantasy XI!
Because my brain just flipped it around. I'm like, well, no, it's IX.
Well, good news! Final Fantasy XI is already on PC.
No, I understand that, but I thought they were going to be doing something new with it, like redoing it, doing an HD version, because I saw they're remaking, or remastering it.
I'm like, oh, yes, remastering XI. Oh, it's IX.
They will be pulling the plug on the 360 and Playstation versions in, what, like two months?
It's your last chance to get those 360 achievements if you still need them.
Oh, god, no.
Well, apparently it's easier to, like, grinding to 75 is no big deal now.
It's weird. That game's changed a lot from when I first saw it.
Yeah, how times have changed. It's like, I can't get to 50, I can't do this stupid quest.
Somebody needs to help me do the goddamn quest so I can get to 65.
I don't want to fight, Matt. It's too hard.
Alright, anyway, where were we? Oh, yes, Final Fantasy IX, Loki, being remastered for PC and phones.
My least favorite of the modern Final Fantasy.
Really?
Yeah.
I don't think I would use that strong, I mean...
I'm just weird, though. I liked VIII, so, you know, whatever.
I'm just begging the listeners to fight me, but I think VIII's...
You guys know how I feel about VIII.
I like the story in VIII, but I just can't stand the gameplay elements, so I think IX is certainly better than VIII, in fact, by a lot.
I think there's some elements of IX that are better than VII, but anyway, I digress.
You have a chance to rediscover your opinions for Final Fantasy IX when they release this.
Slightly better-looking characters in the trailer, so it looks like maybe some of the things that they had to compress to fit this on a PlayStation 1 disc, or three or four of them, however many it was on.
Maybe they have some uncompressed textures in there now.
Also, some of the things that are popular from the Final Fantasy VII PC release, as well as when it was ported to PlayStation 4, is auto-saving, achievements, and a high-speed mode, which I know a lot of people are using in Final Fantasy VII on their replays.
This is notable, too, because this game, as Loki's kind of inferring, never really got the same attention level post-release that VII, certainly VII, and a little bit VIII kind of got, so now this is a chance to experience it again.
I find the phone element of this interesting, too, that they're going to release this on phones, because that means they're going to release it like this on phones.
But then again, four CDs worth of data is what? Two gigs? That's no big deal for a cell phone game anymore.
I'm sure compression technology is a lot better than it used to be.
I know, so I'm sure actually running it on the phone is no big deal, so it's going to be very interesting. I probably won't bother playing it on the phone.
Oh god, no. Why would anyone do that?
But I'll do PC, and who knows? If they do the PlayStation 4 version, because they port from PC to PS4 like they did VII, it could be interesting.
By interesting being terrible.
I don't hate it like you do.
It doesn't look good. I had fond memories of VII and I played it on PC, and I'm like, oh my god, what the fuck?
Because your TV was different.
I understand that, but I'm just saying it does not hold up graphics-wise. I'm sure IX would be a little bit better, because the character models were way better, but it's just not quite the same.
Well, I'll give IX another look. It had some very interesting characters, I thought, in IX, so I'm going to give that a look when the PC version comes out.
I hope they do get a chance to enhance some of the graphics, but I have a feeling it's just going to be magic with rendering and uncompressed textures and things that'll make it look better.
I don't think they're going to go back and redo an awful lot, although they did show glimpses of the battle interface, and the battle interface did look different.
So maybe they are putting a little more work under the hood than you would think.
Because Final Fantasy VII and VIII on PC were pretty much ports with just a few extra things.
So, we'll see.
Alright, moving on, Dark Sakura.
Who likes fashion?
I like Project Runway.
One day you're in, and one day you're out.
I'm sure we're all familiar with Louis Vuitton, right?
Is that the one that makes the handbags that all the middle-aged ladies are standing outside in a line?
Yeah.
Well, they've actually recruited a new model to show off the 2016 Spring Summer.
And it's me! It's me, you guys! I'm so flattered to be modeling bags.
So, the individual chosen by Nicolas Gasquere, I think it's Gasquere is the name, is Lightning from Final Fantasy XIII.
Lightning is the new model for Louis Vuitton.
This choice seems about four years out of date, but Lightning's cool. Why Lightning? That's such a weird choice.
Because apparently she is a hero, and they thought that she was perfect to show off the clothes.
And this isn't just reusing pictures of her with the clothes overlaid.
This is a collaboration with Square Enix's Visual Works studio.
So, Square Enix is actually putting resources-
No Moreau was in on this.
Wow. So, I mean, granted, they're being paid by Louis Vuitton for it, but they're actually using resources to create these custom ads or whatever.
There's like video and everything of her walking around in the clothes and posing in attack poses with her purse.
Is this in Japan only? Because I don't-
They put this out on their social media, like all of it.
Target audiences don't seem to overlap, like the kind of ladies I would see playing Final Fantasy XIII and the ladies I would see lining up outside of Louis Vuitton's store aren't usually the same.
Again, sure, of course there's some people that are into both, but not enough to spend money.
It's not like this is the first time, because apparently they had a couple of characters modeling for Prada, and Square Enix worked with Rowan, the Japanese brand.
So, I mean, it's neat. I like one of the outfits.
However you want to spend those advertising dollars, I guess. I mean, might as well. It's better than burning them. I mean, sure.
Admittedly, I do think it's cool, and maybe, you know, even though I said, oh, but they don't overlap, maybe that's the whole effing point, is that maybe the idea is to try and, you know,
here we are talking about Louis Vuitton on a video game podcast. I mean, when does that ever happen?
So, maybe the dollars were well spent to get their name out there with an audience.
No, it's not well spent. Let's think about it. I mean, are our listeners going, oh my god, he mentioned Louis Vuitton. I'm gonna go buy a Louis Vuitton bag.
No one fucking cares! It just doesn't make any sense. We're just pointing out that that's a really dumb way to advertise that.
I disagree.
Go ahead, because then I have a comment.
Because if you think about it now, with, you know, for all of us who were gamers when we were younger, now we are old enough that we, some of the lady gamers who've grown up are the target audience.
You know, I could, in theory, go out and afford a Louis Vuitton bag. I could. I would not buy it, but I could.
And I think that it's sort of more taking a character that embodies an ideal and then applying that ideal as a branding point.
That, you know, here we have a woman who is very petite, very pretty, but still a strong character, and they want to tie that in with their brand.
So, I understand it from the marketing point of view. It actually is a neat gimmick. It's the same thing as Toyota using Hatsune Miku. So, not that big of a deal.
I don't get that one either, but whatever. I mean, if that's what they want to do, then that's what they can try.
The big thing? People are talking about it, and that's what they want.
But talking about something doesn't mean I'm going to go buy it.
It doesn't matter. It's still publicity.
I was going to say, if you want a Louis Vuitton bag, just go to certain street vendors in the back alleys of New York City and you'll get one real cheap.
L.A. too.
It's not legit. But the whole thing is, is that...
It says Louis Vuitton on it.
Us right now. We are right now proving the point of their marketing campaign. Not a single one of us in this room is going to buy one, but we're talking about it.
That argument can be made that all this fuckery that Comcast does with their shitty service is actually good advertisement because we're talking about them.
That doesn't make any sense. I understand that there's no such thing as bad advertisement, but it doesn't sell anything.
I get where you're coming from, but I actually think she's right because...
Who is it that said this? Was it Paula Abdul or somebody that said, even if they're talking bad about you, they're still talking about you.
And it's like, okay, how is Kim Kardashian famous? That whole thing. How is Kim Kardashian famous?
Oh, look at that ass clown Trump. I mean, the whole... He spews shit every time his numbers start to take a dip.
And what happens after that? Up goes numbers.
And you can get a toupee in the back alleys in New York City as well.
It doesn't change the fact that he's a shit spewing ass clown, you know, but it's proof right there.
Bonz006 in chat says Dunkin Donuts uses Domo. Is that true? That's kind of rad. I like Dunkin Donuts and Domo.
Let's just pick random company that use random Japanese icon.
How about this though, Loki? I remember a time when if you were into video games, you were a nerd and it was the outcast and it was that part of society.
Now, the ultra suave fashionable handbags are going to video game characters.
And, you know, whether it helps or not or whatever, I still think that's kind of like... It's like a victory in a way.
It's like video games are mainstream with audiences we ever thought it would crack through to. Does that make sense?
No. No, it doesn't make any sense. I'm sorry. It's because you make this choice to advertise this way.
It doesn't mean it's like all of a sudden breakthroughs have been made in society.
Oh my god, we're accepted now. It's a choice. It's like if they use Friskies and Nancat or something like that.
It just wouldn't fucking make any sense. At least that has a cat.
Wait, but Friskies did do that iPad thing for cats? What the fuck was that? Is your cat really going to know?
Alright, forget it. Forget it. I'm all out of evens. I can do nothing but can't right now.
So, we're going to move on to the next story. Everybody's had their say. Next story.
So, Valve, of course, they come out to actually talk about the issues that they were having regarding basically some cashing problems that were causing people to be able to see the account information of other people.
During the whole holiday sale. And I guess in regards to this, they were doing something. They had an outside company that was helping them fight against some DDoS attacks.
And they made a change to their cashing system that unfortunately caused some people to see the information on the accounts of other people.
And this included just some basic information. Their address and email address that they had associated with PayPal.
Last couple digits of the credit card number and that type of thing.
But, of course, they were saying, though, that this didn't necessarily include the full credit card numbers, user passwords, or anything like that.
They didn't allow anything to be changed with this. They just saw your purchase history and that type of stuff.
Well, you missed it last week, Loki, because I had a Loki-level rant about what happened with the whole Steam thing.
And at the end of the day, I was kind of throwing out there, isn't this in some ways worse than a credit card breach with somebody's private information out there?
Because some of us are very protective about that information.
So, I'm not going to rehash, because obviously things have changed with this announcement and so forth.
So, I've been getting some questions about, well, where's your head at now that Steam has finally replied to this?
And for one, there is a part of me that's like, well, it did take them a while to do it.
But, I'm trying to be mindful, it was the holidays, it's realistic, nobody was in the office, and this was a vendor issue.
At the end of the day, we can talk about the reasons why and all that stuff until we're blue in the face.
I'm glad Steam finally admitted something happened. I feel they explained it pretty well.
I mean, what happened, whether we agree with it or not.
My question is, what are they going to basically do from here?
I really would like to see how they can kind of prevent this from happening again.
And I understand, okay, well, if they're using this vendor or whatever and the person made a mistake there, mistakes happen, maybe there's not a lot that can be done.
But my throwback to that would be, why are you showing full addresses and this credit card information and all this in the first place?
Like, maybe Steam needs to evaluate what they're actually showing, the pages that they're generating in the first place.
If they don't have a need to show the customer the full address and all that stuff, then don't show it.
Because I know every time I buy a game, I see my address and name. Do I need that?
And to be fair, I'm a little ignorant when it comes to business law and all that.
So if there is a law that says they have to show that before I can run my card or something, then okay, I guess we've hit a wall.
But if they only need to show, like, my zip code, I would prefer that.
Because I also know when I buy games on the Wii U, they don't show my full address, they only ever ask for my zip code.
So I kind of feel like maybe that, and so you kind of ask, well, Rob, what would you like to see done?
That's what I would like to see done is, why is the content of those pages, why do we have so many people exposed to this?
The ability to edit my address should be a page I access extremely infinitely.
Yeah, I don't think that they need that on there. I mean, it's not that way through other, you know, if I'm purchasing on PlayStation Network or purchasing Xbox Live, I don't ever have to do that.
Yeah, I feel like I don't see that when I purchase on the other networks.
So, yeah, but at least I'm glad they fessed up, there's something going on, and, you know, Steam will get my trust back.
I bought two games today, so I guess we're already back there.
But I just, you know, I'm glad they are going to try to figure out who all's information was exposed and figure out, you know, what they're going to do.
I guess for the most part, you were probably seeing people's information in another country, so maybe there wasn't a whole lot you could do.
But I just, I hope they'll offer credit monitoring or something to those affected people if they choose to do it.
Well, I don't know if they should do that, because it's really only two digits of the credit card number. I mean, that's nothing.
I have a feeling what's going to happen is that they're going to say, hey, because your information was exposed, we're going to offer you an apology package, you know, click here to redeem.
And it'll be a copy of, what, Portal 2 and maybe some other Valve goodies. But in order to accept it, you're going to have to agree, you're going to basically electronically sign a clause that you won't participate in a class action lawsuit.
I also, by the way, back to having a couple of the numbers being exposed, I wouldn't be too worried about that, because I do believe that the first four numbers have a credit card number just to identify the vendor.
I think it's always last four they show, though. But yeah, but anyway, I mean, like, and I talked about this last week, actually, the credit end of it, I'm kind of like, your credit vendors are there to help protect you from that kind of stuff.
I'm actually not even as worried about that as the whole name and address thing. But I've calmed down a little bit from where we were at last week. I do feel like we're able to move forward from this.
I just, my suggestion to Steam would be, please evaluate, do you need to be showing addresses? Why are you generating all this information on the page?
If there's a legal reason to do it, then okay, I guess we're stuck. But I don't, again, I don't recall seeing my full address when I buy on Wii U or when I buy on PlayStation Network or Xbox One.
So maybe Steam needs to adopt a similar policy. That would be where I'd like to see things move forward.
Anyway, JohnnyB7990 in chat says, I'd like to know what they will do also. I bought a few games over the winter sale.
Well, did you buy on Christmas morning? Because that would be the time that you would be worried if you were on the store when this was going on.
So hopefully not. I hope none of our people got affected by that. My fingers are crossed for you guys.
And hopefully if your information was shown, it was shown to somebody who had no idea what to do with it.
Hopefully another honest person who said, you know, I probably shouldn't be looking at this and close the window. Hopefully.
Well, there was some like I read when it first came out, like there was a guy that had that happen. And that's kind of how the whole thing got kind of rolling is they saw that information.
They actually contacted the guy. They said, hey, I saw your information. Just wanted to let you know what's going on.
Huh. Interesting. I wonder how that guy responded. Interesting.
To register participation for this week's episode of Orange Andrade with VoGnetwork.com, use the passphrase reward.
All right. Well, moving on. Speaking of stuff going on on Steam, you know, they have this whole holiday sale that I think finishes at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
Right. And they they did it a little different this time. They just had I may have bought Rocket League.
And that's OK. That's a good choice. We should play sometime. It's fun. They just had kind of like a big bucket of sales.
They didn't really do the whole like hourly daily. They just kind of were like, everything's on sale. Go.
It was kind of a lazy sale, but I think we're all OK with it because it was pretty easy to understand how the sale worked this year.
You didn't have to be like, all right, buy the game when it's on a daily or a flash sale, but don't buy it if it's not on the like that kind of those rules were not really a part of it this time anyway.
But apparently there was a whole nother thing going on that people haven't really picked up on for the most part.
But thank you to gaming blogs. We're learning about it.
Apparently, the North Pole Noir Web comic that was unveiled through the different trading cards that you could get during the sale.
There is actually a type of ARG that these cards are exposing. There's a whole Reddit even dedicated to this.
It's the Reddit steam sale detectives. And I guess people are finding some crazy stuff about this ARG.
So I guess there was a hidden password prompt in the steam store. And to make this visible, you would do like you type search and then you get a field that pops up.
And if you do this on the Hitman Codename 47 page and type a big long stream and hit enter, you get a dialog box that is something you put in the URL.
I mean, it's totally one of those ARG like it's really hard to figure out. And I don't think they've figured out the answer to the whole thing yet.
And who knows if Valve is going to say anything about it. Like, you know, I doubt that Half-Life 3 is at the end of it, but there could be something interesting.
Also, there was an achievement, I think, on some Valve designers profile that said something about ARG.
So people are wondering if there isn't a hidden Steam badge or a Steam achievement tied to the ARG.
But, since the sale is over at 10am tomorrow morning, who knows if anybody is going to get it. Or maybe the ARG will continue. We'll see.
Alright, moving on. DarkSakura.
Well, this is something that could be done in the previous Fallout games, but Fallout 4 made it really freaking difficult.
That you could actually beat Fallout 4 without killing anybody. Or at least without you being the one that did the killing.
And it almost broke the game because they really programmed it in to where you sort of have to go around, you know, killing people here and there and fighting certain enemies.
But, this one guy pretty much went through it trying to get other people to do his dirty work for him. The guy's name is Kyle Hinckley.
And he basically beat Fallout 4 with zero kills in survival mode. By, you know, bumping up his pacifist stats and whatnot.
And then talking to other people and trying to charm them into doing the killing and many many many resets.
But he also found certain mechanics in the game, how some characters were tied to the others.
And how if your minions do kills for you, it counts as your kill. So he had to really be careful with it.
And have basically talk other people into doing the killing or get different things to happen.
And it was pretty neat. The article's a good read. But the thing that I like is just how it goes into the mechanics of the game.
And how, you know, the game makers expect certain things to happen and when you don't do things exactly the way that they've programmed it into the game.
Or you found ways to circumvent it. It's sort of like the world doesn't know what to do.
It's pretty interesting. I mean, lots of reloading and reloading and reloading. But he pulled it off, so kudos.
It's interesting. I see this happen a lot in games that people take a bit of a pacifist approach.
I know we were talking before the show. It isn't really pacifist because he's having somebody else do the killing. But, you know, technicalities.
He's sort of doing the purple man version.
Yeah, I see this happen in MMOs a lot. Especially when I was doing Hoard House.
We'd always be talking about, oh, this player got from 0 to 60 without ever killing another character because they picked herbs to get the whole way there.
Because the crafting in the game gives you experience and all that stuff. So it's interesting how people will take these alternative approaches in games.
Make jewelry for social progression and profit.
Step one, pacifism. Step two, question mark. Step three, profit.
Alright, let's travel around the world and check out some release dates.
One other thing that I do want to mention is that there was another one about someone going through and killing everybody in, I think, Fallout New Vegas.
And about how that kind of broke some of the mechanics, too, and left you with permanently immortal NPCs.
See, this is how we know that Undertale is taking over gaming because you've got people taking the pacifism approach and people taking the genocide approach in other games.
Alright, in all seriousness, let's travel around the world and check out some release dates and video games that are coming out to a store near you.
Although I expect it's probably still going to be a little empty this week, even though we do have folks getting back to work this week.
I don't know if we're going to have a very busy release calendar, but we'll start with Loki in the US.
Not a thing.
Not a thing. Not a thing for a few weeks, actually.
For a few weeks. I seem to remember we've had some-
January's pretty light, and it's been even worse the last few years, so yeah.
Well, didn't we get, like, wasn't Lightning Returns a January release a few years ago?
It was, yeah.
Borderlands had something in January at one point, didn't they?
Borderlands, yeah. I think Borderlands 2, wasn't it? I could be wrong.
No, Borderlands 2 was not. That wasn't so there. I don't think it was Borderlands. It wasn't Borderlands. It was, um...
There was something that came out, though, similar to that.
Yeah.
Maybe once in a while we'll have that random huge January, like, spend your gift card on me release,
but it seems like we're not really getting that this year here in the States.
They've delayed things far into 2016.
Well, going over to Japan, honestly, I see a very similar story.
Whenever I look at the consoles, I don't see anything as far as the living room console goes.
And even for the Vita, there's nothing out until January 14th, and that is true for the 3DS as well.
It's an empty week in Japan. Happy New Year. Play the games you got.
Dark Soccer, anything in the UK?
Nope.
This is a dry week for games.
Jack and shit.
This is a very dry week for games. Well, things will pick up again in Japan at least next week.
I don't know about the other regions, but this is usually the time of year where there's not much to say in this segment.
So let's get back into some news. Loki.
Alright, so as we've been talking about a lot of delays, you know, I want to say that the Vive was delayed not too long ago,
and now we have the Oculus Touch, the gamepad, or virtually all the handheld motion controllers that are going to be coming out with the Rift,
are coming out now until the second half of 2016, and saying that they need more time to make it even more comfortable, reliable, and natural.
So it could be a while.
And then along with that, though, you're going to get your launch game or packing game.
They're going to be including the Oculus Rift not only will you be getting...
they aren't supposed to be coming with the Xbox One controllers, but you're also going to be getting a game called Lucky's Tale,
which is kind of a cute little platformer game.
And that'll be something that's coming out whenever the Oculus decides to make its way out.
Now Bobby's in our chat over at live.vognetwork.com saying that the Touch was always coming out for holidays 2016.
This isn't a delay, it's just a reiteration, I guess.
Why do they need to reiterate?
For all you guys that were eager, just a reminder.
Wait.
It's interesting.
Alright, I don't know.
Well hopefully...
To hopefully make you forget about the fact that you came out and said,
oh yeah, I know what he says is going to be around this prize, but it's going to be a little bit more.
Hopefully games such as Lucky's Tale and the other games they put out again,
will make it worth it.
Alright, let's talk about SNK Playmore.
And this is, again, another story that involves Steam.
I feel like we have a ton of Steam stories tonight, but I guess that's where the news is at this week.
Well, SNK Playmore has actually been talking about how their Steam ports are helping the company out
and getting them back into making new games.
Back in November, SNK Playmore actually put out a statement saying that they're going to move away from the Pochi slot business
and go back into traditional game development.
And that's, of course, we love SNK Playmore for things like Fatal Fury, Samurai Showdown, and all that.
So they're going to get back into that a little bit.
And there was an interview recently with Famitsu.
And in that interview, Yutaka Noguchi, who's the chief of the gaming division,
said that PC ports like the King of Fighters XIII Steam Edition help them back towards game development.
And, of course, having the international recognition helps, too.
Even as of now, this is a quote, we're better known as a game company than as a Pochi slot company.
People still talk about us as a game company when we say our name.
So, that's all from the Famitsu interview.
So, interesting that the PC releases here in the States of those games kind of help them, I guess, show there's a market for it and the sales.
So, a lesson learned here. Konami, you should release your games on Steam, more of them.
Actually, they have been, though. I want to say the Castlevania, like the 3D Castlevania games are there on Steam.
Konami, you want to make some money? Well, actually, no, they're not going to make money this way because they have to license everything.
But, imagine releasing the DDR games as PC versions.
Well, they did. A long time ago.
I know they had DDR PC, but that's not the fucking same thing.
That gave us the gift of Mr. Spanky as a DLC character.
Yes, I know. That made no fucking sense. But, no, I'm talking about actually releasing the old games as PC downloads.
Make a USB game pad or something like that. That would be pretty cool.
I don't know. I don't know if it would work today. I feel like where we're at with technology is just a way different place.
Yeah, fine. I'll just pirate him instead, I guess.
That's what it's going to take. Or, eventually, just get my own arcade cabinet once I have the room and can do that.
The disposable income to do that.
Alright. Well, let's say an orange riot in chat over at live.vognetwork.com says DDR Infinitoss.
You know, there is that Beatmania 2DX Infinitoss thing that they're trying on PC.
So, maybe it's not outside the realm of possibility. Who knows?
Well, the most modern DDR games run on PC anyways. They run on PC at the arcade.
Because people have leaked to PC clients.
Well, yeah. And that's how people were playing Beatmania on PC. Being little pirates downloading the ROMs and all that stuff.
Opportunists.
We'll see.
Alright. Let's travel back to a more classic time.
Let's go back to when game companies were making games and less pachinko machines.
It's the classic game of the week where Dark Soccer is going to step into the gaming vault and find a game that she says,
Hey. You. Play this. Because it's cool.
And Dark Sakura with a pick tonight that is a little more recent but still falls under that rule of 10 years older or more.
I did it on purpose.
And when I saw the game you picked, I was like, Oh my god. I remember talking about this game on the OLR to go edition.
And it's not exactly 10 years because technically, actually it is because the Japanese release was 2005.
Alright, Dark Sakura. What is the classic game of the week? Get ready for it, people. You guys are going to go, Oh my god. It's 10 years of all that.
Electroplankton.
And the reason why I picked Electroplankton in particular is because it was among the first releases in the US in 2006.
It came out on January 9th, 2006 in the US. It had already been out in Japan in 2005.
But Electroplankton, and there's really not a whole lot to say about it except it has one of the longest katakana names I have ever seen in my life.
Like Erakuto Parenkutom.
So, anyway, Electroplankton is a kind of a participation game, I should say.
It is an interactive music video game. And you have two versions of play. You have performance and audience.
And in performance mode, you basically tap on the little plankton or work with a plankton with the stylus and the touch screen and the microphone.
And then it lets you put down where you can play music with the plankton.
Audiences, basically, you just let them sing to you. The plankton make the music.
You can't interact with them like you can in performance mode. But it's like a demo, kinda, so you can hear them make music.
Can we listen to it for a minute, Rob?
Sure, of course. Let me try it.
And of course it stopped right as you said that. It's going in between stages.
Well, we'll get to the next stage and then we'll listen to it a little bit.
But the thing that I liked about it is that the music was just really peaceful for the most part.
Here you go. This is like the plankton are swimming around like these little leaves, I don't know, in like a...
Boy, every time we stop to listen to the music, it's a very non...
It's very relaxing, though.
It's very, like, I could see Enya singing along to this.
More like a little bit of ambience. But yeah, you're basically playing the music with your plankton.
Now, this game was developed by NT0, which also the game really only has the director's name directly on the packaging, which is Toshio Iwai.
And this was a decision made by Satoru Iwata because basically Iwai created the game alone.
The developers also had considered putting in a save function, but they didn't put it in because they wanted this to be something that you enjoy when you enjoy it.
It has to be in the moment and more visceral than that.
So they were thinking that if you put in a save function, instead of it becoming a moment of enjoyment, it's going to become a tool.
And that would also require more flash ROM storage, but they ended up dedicating that to the voice files for Vol Voice and RecRec.
The game did make its first public appearance at the Game Developers Conference, and then later the 2005 E3, which we were there for, remember?
I do.
I remember standing in line and playing the demo.
It actually was released, like I said, on January 9th, 2006 in the US with kind of a limited sale outlet.
It was online retailers and Nintendo World Store in New York City.
And some retailers had an option to get it. Like, remember Electronics Boutique EB?
They had it in Canada, and it was released in Europe on July 7th, 2006.
They were going to do an Australian release, but apparently they didn't have enough room in the schedule.
It was censored out of Australia. The electroplank didn't look like little penises, so Australia censored it. Kidding.
Anyway, so on July 6th, 2009, Nintendo re-released this part of the DSiWare.
And the instruments were available to buy separately for 200 Nintendo points each.
And then there were the different characters. There was Tracey, or Trappy, Hanenbon, Nanocarp, and Beatniss came out on July 11th.
And then Rugwreck and Lumi Loop came out on July 22nd. All the characters had various individual releases.
And then in North America, all 10 of the electroplank didn't came out in November 2009.
So basically, it got an 8 out of 10 from Joystick, and Nintendo Power gave it an 8.5 out of 10.
So it got really decent ratings, but one of the biggest complaints was the lack of the saving.
You know, you could play your tunes, but there was no real way to save it.
So the only way you could do that would be just to have some type of external recording device.
Or, you know, now I'm sure there's more ways of doing it, but when it came out, there wasn't really a way.
In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, by the way, there was a stage called Hanenbo that was based on the Hanenbo feature.
So, that's it.
There it is, your classic game of the week. Electroplankton! Celebrating 10 years. Just long enough to be a classic game.
I do also want to mention that EY has done a number of different music-related games.
He did Otoki for Famicom Disk. It's a music shoot-em-up.
Sound Fantasy, that was an unreleased game for Super Famicom. He also did that SimTunes, which is for PC.
Tenorion, which is a digital music instrument. And then Daigasso Band Brothers.
I don't think that he designed it, but it was another one that was sort of related for the Nintendo DS.
Alright, there it is. Electroplankton, your classic game of the week.
And I wonder how many times Dark Soccer is going to do that to us this year in 2016.
Remind us how old we are with these 10-year-old choices of games.
I'm going to drill that in.
Is that our first DS classic game of the week? I feel like it is.
For the Nintendo DS. I feel like it is.
It might be.
Just think, it's going to be a matter of time before Xbox 360 games are eligible. Blows my mind.
Yeah.
Wow. Alright. Maybe the chatters will get their wish of a Halo game when 360 games become eligible. We'll see.
Alright. All joking aside, we're going to take a quick break. When we come back, we have more of Orange Lounge Radio to come, including rapid fire news.
The FUGO Question of the Week. We're going to talk a little bit about Rise of the Tomb Raider.
We'll talk about Just Cause 3 and more when we come back with more of Orange Lounge Radio right after this.
Welcome back, everybody, to Orange Lounge Radio. Live tonight with our first episode of 2016 for January 3rd of 2016.
Episode number 626. And thank you guys who are here live listening to our show.
Thank you guys who listen to us on the podcast feed as well. We appreciate that.
But I do know that going on live right now as well is the whole awesome games done quick marathon.
Which, you know, that always happens around the first or second week of January.
And they basically speed run games for a good cause.
And through their Twitch feed and donation, they are raising money for, I believe it's Prevent Cancer Foundation is who they're raising money for this time.
And yeah, I think that's great and it's a fun thing to watch.
Kind of the different exploits in some games that are out there that help people beat it really quick.
So, DarkSakura, weren't you saying you and Dan were watching a little bit of that earlier today?
We were watching the Rayman Legends bit, which made me think of I want to be the guy.
And then Dan was watching Kirby when I left.
Which he wanted to watch some of the Mario ones tonight.
But yeah, I was actually a little surprised. I didn't expect it to start this week, but I guess there it goes.
Yeah, there it is. So, that'll be continuing. I think it's calendared through Saturday, although sometimes they do the kind of encore and it goes on even longer.
And I thought it was interesting. I was looking at the calendar games they plan on doing.
They actually have an indie block that's happening for about 24 hours of it is all dedicated to indie games.
So, I thought that was really cool. And you have classics and new stuff. There's a really big range in there of games.
So, very cool to see that.
Apparently, SHA100Matt in our chat over at live.voggenetwork.com says Notch dropped in and donated $8,000.
And he does that too. Ever since he sold off Minecraft, he dips in once in a while to donate to these fundraisers.
So, let's see. Dartetsuya says Super Mario 64 just wrapped up.
I would imagine some of you guys have the video open in one window and you're listening to us and that's okay.
I know some people listen to us while they play MMOs and stuff and that's fine. It's a radio show.
We don't have video for a reason. We try to be accessible to those that for whatever reason don't have access to the video.
Some of you listen in the car. Some of you listen at work. So, it works. That's why it's Orange Lounge Radio.
Let's see. On a different note here in chat, JohnnyB7990 says Glad to be here for the first 2016 episode live.
I need to come here more often. Usually listen on Stitcher but live is always fun.
Well, thanks for being here. I appreciate that.
Yeah, live is a little more fun because then you can have an impact on the show and have your voices read.
Don't get us wrong. We appreciate all the listeners being on the podcast.
We try to have other ways for you guys to interact too via the Fugu Question of the Week or through the email bag.
So, even if you can't be here live on Sunday night for whatever reason, there's always that.
But, yeah, very different when you're here live because then you can kind of talk to other people about what's going on live on the show and the topics that we talk about.
In fact, we're going to get right back into some more topics right now with our rapid fire news. We'll start with Loki.
Alright, so there's a game going through Kickstarter right now called Slipstream and it looks very much like Outrun.
So, they're only looking for $6,000 but the visuals are pretty much straight up art 90s Outrun type racing game.
So, it's pretty awesome. And they even have a demo that you can play on PC.
And it's supposed to have 30 tracks and 4 cars and 8 original songs. So, go check it out.
Slipstream. Now, you may remember that they offered this, like, exclusive Amiibos for the whole Skylanders, their brand new Skylanders game with the turbocharged.
Well, now you don't need to necessarily buy the game to get those Amiibo figures. They will be sold separately at GameStop.
Hey, I got some good news. I saw them on the shelf at Toys R Us yesterday. GameStop may be having them some particular day, but Toys R Us, I don't know if they broke street or what happened, but I almost bought them at Toys R Us.
But then I was like, I don't know. They were a little expensive. They wanted like $25 because it was really like two figures.
It's like the Bowser and the plane, so I was like, eh, I gotta draw the line somewhere.
Now, do they unlock figures for Mario Maker?
No, I think they function as normal Bowser and Donkey Kong Amiibos.
Oh, that's fucking lame.
I don't think they do anything special. Except, here they have a switch, so you can actually switch them between Skylanders and Amiibo.
I don't know how that all works, but apparently there's some type of switch.
So, at least that's what Shane was telling me, because again, I didn't buy them because I was like, eh, $25, that's kind of above the most I'm willing to pay for an Amiibo.
Exactly. But yeah, you can go check those out if that's something you're interested in.
This is kind of cool. More characters or skins coming to Super Mario Maker, unfortunately still for only the 8-bit version of the game, or that skin.
This time, Excitebike, and then you've got the Excitebike guy, and Birdo are coming, so you can check those out.
Actually, right now, because they're available on the 31st of December.
I got them both in Mario Maker, actually, since you bring this up.
And I like Birdo, because now you played levels to unlock these characters, right?
The Excitebike level was jank. I did not like it at all.
If it's supposed to be Excitebike, it's not. It's like the conveyor belts and springs. I did not like that level at all.
But the Birdo one was basically World 1-1 in Mario 2, done for Mario 1.
And so that was kind of fun, to play that. They called it NES Remix, but it had nothing to do with NES Remix.
So yeah, it was kind of fun.
I think, one of the things I kind of miss from the Mario 3, and I think I know why they haven't done any other ones.
Although I really think they should. Remember how they used to have the actual slanted ground, where you can slide on it and stuff like that?
Yeah.
I really wish they'd bring that back.
You never know! They've been slowly rolling out these random features in Mario Maker, like the checkpoints showed up after the fact.
In Splatoon, they were supporting for a good six months after release, or so. Probably even longer. So you never know. Mario Maker may still have some of that stuff.
I tried going back and playing a little bit last week, I think. There's still not a whole lot there, and I'm not really motivated to make any more levels right now.
We'll see.
Alright, well if you aren't playing Mario Maker on the Wii U, maybe you don't have a Wii U, you could try and play a different version of Mario Maker on the PC.
But you better hurry up and get it, because Nintendo's legal department is probably-
It's already on the PC, already on the internet. It's gonna be there forever.
Yeah, I know. It's there forever. But you can take a look at Super Mario Remaker. It's actually fan-made, and it's something that you can run on the PC.
And there's a demo of it available now, which I think only has the 8-bit modes. It doesn't have Mario 3 or Mario World or any of that.
But definitely they want to do a browsable level search system as they're adding to it. There's also your own costumes, and even in the little preview they have Homestar Runner as a costume.
So obviously, crossing all these lines of copyright and so forth. But yeah, I'm pretty sure Nintendo will be siccing their legal team on it.
Apparently plenty of people have told this guy, and he's kind of sick of hearing it.
But unfortunately, that's just the reality, is that Nintendo is making some good money off Super Mario Maker right now, so they probably don't want to see somebody outdo them on the PC.
But hey, you know what? For what it's worth, I think it's really cool. And maybe Nintendo should talk to this guy about doing something for the official game, because he's clearly putting things in there that players want.
Like, what else was it? Oh, the slopes are in this game. Like, you were talking about the slopes in Mario 3? They're in this game.
Cool.
Yeah, it has some things that the regular game does not.
Let's talk about the Shovel Knight amiibo, because the Shovel Knight amiibo apparently went up for pre-order, but it was an error.
And people were wondering, oh, does this mean the supply is short? What happened? Well, Shovel Knight amiibo went up for pre-order on Best Buy and Amazon.
Yacht Club Games actually came out and said they weren't taken down due to stock issues, but they shouldn't have been listed in the first place, saying,
quote, the Best Buy Amazon pre-orders were not taken down due to stock issues, but because they should not have been listed for pre-order in the first place, stock should hopefully be plentiful at release, and refresh shipments will continue arriving frequently.
Luckily, I got in there while it was still open for pre-order, so I grabbed myself a Shovel Knight amiibo. I'm excited about that.
Because I like Shovel Knight. I think it's kind of weird that they're locking, because I think co-op mode is locked behind the amiibo.
Yeah.
That's a bit much to me. I don't know. All right.
I mentioned a minute ago about Splatoon still getting support all this time after its release, and the latest update on Splatoon, I think we've heard this before, is that January is going to be the last month of DLC.
However, in a Famitsu interview, the producer of Splatoon, Hisashi Nogami, and the co-directors of the game, actually elaborated on what will happen in Splatoon in 2016.
So, substantial updates, things like weapon, gear, stages, that all wraps up this month. However, balancing will continue, and Splatfest will continue to carry on with no end date as of yet.
I imagine even those will end at some point, but we're talking whenever the inevitable sequel comes out, because let's be real, this game's done well enough, there's going to be a sequel, or whenever we move into the next phase of the NX.
Interesting other comment in the interview is that they say it's difficult for players to remember which weapons are best suited for each individual stage. There's already so many.
Adding even more would exacerbate the situation. This is why they're dropping off DLC in January.
And probably these guys want to move on to make other games, including Splatoon 2 or whatever else may be in store on the NX or otherwise.
Kaijuto in chat over at live.vognetwork.com stating, I'm glad no more DLC. It's good to have a game that's final with no more DLC.
You know what though, I gotta say, kudos. As much as I had my issues with Splatoon in online mode, it narrowly missed my top three.
Loki guessing it as my number one game earlier in the show was a really good guess. I thought it had a tremendous level of support post-release, and I think that's really cool.
By the way, on a note with Splatoon before I turn it over to DarkSakura, I did notice over on our forums over at live.vognetwork.com that Dark Tetsuya, and I think it was Kaijuto, are actually trying to put together a little Splat League.
So if you want to get in and play some Splatfest with some other VoG participants, I think that's a fabulous idea.
Visit our forums over at vognetwork.com and get in touch with Dark Tetsuya and let them know you would like to be on that team and meet up for some online gaming. I think that would be fun.
All right, and TigerCloud pointing out that Awesome Games Done Quick did the speedrun of the single player mode. That's right, that was earlier today, right?
Splatoon is still very much in the limelight all these months after its release. You can't say that about a lot of games.
All right, let's move on. DarkSakura.
For folks who are still playing Killer Instinct, Tusk has been announced. We will be having Tusk before too long.
And they actually did address a request to have Idol and Gargos. They said that Idol is tough because, well, he had Satterlegs, a giant club, and only had two moves.
And is really cheap. But hey, Tusk. That's cool.
Also, for Dissidia, there is going to be Ramza from Final Fantasy Tactics coming, quote, soon.
It was teased in November but is going to be joining the cast pretty soon, they said.
Looks like they're aiming for a character every two months.
And then there's going to be a Street Fighter V live action prologue, supposed to be coming in March.
It looks like there's going to be the Street Fighter Resurrection, a live action mini-series, that's going to outline what Street Fighter V is going to be going on.
It's the same team behind Street Fighter Assassin's Fist.
So there you go.
Alright. I don't think I ever talked about it on the show but I played a little bit of Street Fighter V while it was in the beta.
I'm looking forward to picking up the full game. It was fun when I got to play with it.
Alright, let's now get into the FUGL question of the week.
Every week we go to our Facebook and our Google Plus community and you slam those words together and you get FUGL.
This week, in honor of Awesome Games Done Quick, because we know a lot of you have your eyes on that right now,
we wanted to know, is there a game that you like to speedrun?
Have you ever played a game with the goal of completing it as fast as possible and do you have any notable speedrunning achievements?
So let's start over on Facebook with Fabrice A who says,
I once held the world record on Sega Rally Championship for Sega Saturn.
I was really proud of myself at the time. I do want to hold a Sonic Marathon for charity.
That's pretty cool.
We don't have many world champions that listen to Orange Lounge Radio, current or former.
SSG100Matt says, I haven't really speedrun anything myself,
but my mother has been speedrunning Super Mario Brothers on and off since the game came out on the NES.
She doesn't have any records or anything but she's able to beat the game faster than I am able to.
She didn't even know that speedrunning was an actual thing until I told her about it a few years ago.
That's pretty epic. I think you should get your mom involved with Awesome Games Done Quick.
I think they'd love that.
Although I know they probably have a crew that already does Super Mario Brothers probably like disturbingly fast.
I think it's always fun to watch the different generations get involved.
Retertainment on Facebook says, no.
The only kind of game I can think of where I actively try to do things as fast as possible is racing games,
since that's the point. Fair enough, it is the point in a racing game.
But interesting that racing games are also involved in Awesome Games Done Quick.
They were doing a race on Mario Kart earlier,
so sometimes it's still about knowing all those shortcuts on Rainbow Road
to just get an insane time and all the little cheats and so forth.
Flaco Jones on Facebook says, when I was a kid it was Contra.
As I mentioned on the show before, and he has talked about this on a previous episode,
I would record my gameplay by running the Nintendo through the VCR and was clocking in 20 minute runs.
Being such a fan of Games Done Quick has inspired me to informally run some of my current favorite games,
most notably Journey and P.T., the latter of which can be a real pain during the super random final section of the game.
Hitstun over on Facebook says, I keep coming back to Super Mario 64 because it's awesomely broken.
The 16 star route has plenty of fun glitches and shortcuts and finishes the game in under half an hour.
It's a great game for learning the basics of speedrunning.
Unless you know how to do the big jump and get up to the roof early.
You have to elaborate.
There's a particular wall jump in Super Mario 64 that will get you up to the roof early.
Oh wow. I'm sure that's something we're probably going to see in this unless it's banned for whatever reason.
Let's see, Degenerate Johnny says, I don't usually speedrun games because it breaks the story for me.
However, I'm an intervention worthy achievement or trophy whore.
So when Blizzard places an achievement for beating each chapter in Diablo 3 in less than an hour, I was up for the challenge.
I was able to beat the campaign pre-ROS, the expansion, in 3 hours and 23 minutes.
Now that I'm thinking about it, I might do a full ROS speedrun in hardcore mode. Good luck to you.
And on Facebook, Haseo Sumeragawa says, I used to be able to beat Ocarina of Time in 12 hours.
Well, main game anyway was with two hours shy of the world record, but that's the only one I've really tried.
That's still pretty impressive, I gotta say, so good on you for that.
Going over to our Google Plus page over at Google.com slash Plus Orange Lounge Radio.
We have one answer over there from Tech2030 who says, I haven't attempted any, but I've always been interested in speedrunning Metroid.
The Super Metroid race is the best part of any games done quick marathon.
And I'm sure they are going to once again do their save the animals and what do they call it?
Leave them behind.
Fuck the animals.
Fuck the animals. Well, then you don't want to actually fuck the animals, but anyway.
Which is funny because if you only play the next game, the animals are all alive and they help you.
That is true, so we know which ending is canon anyway.
But doesn't save the animals always win? It'll probably win again, let's be real.
I thought last year these did fuck the animals.
No, I don't think they did. They save the animals one every year.
Alright, anyhow, let's get back into some other gaming news. Thank you guys for your responses.
Actually, quickly before I go back to news, anybody in here have a speedrunning thing of note they want to say?
I can't really think of anything. I think the closest I've done, Mario Brothers 2, I have tried to do that as fast as possible.
But I would imagine the fastest way to do it is by using Toad and I really can't play with Toad.
You can princess over everything.
That's, you know, and I can do princess. I can play with princess, but I don't think I know all the shortcuts and things yet.
Because I imagine in the last level there has to be ways you can shortcut over the walls and stuff.
There's got to be things I'm not thinking of yet.
But as far as running through to the warp zones and all that, that's probably a game I've sat down and said I'm going to beat this as fast as possible.
I'm honestly not a super big fan of speedruns myself, of doing them.
But sometimes I'll find, when I'm playing a game, I'll find little shortcuts for myself just to get past annoying things.
You know, like, for example in Dragon Age I've found cliffs I can jump down and get to where I want to go.
It's kind of hard when you have a free roaming game like that, but yeah.
Loki, anything you've tried to speedrun on?
No, not really.
Not big on the speed?
Unless you count speedrunning or seeing how fast I can get people to disconnect from me from multiplayer games before Grand Theft Auto IV because I'm beating their ass so bad.
In which case, I do hold some pretty high records for that, but other than that, nope.
That's only Grand Theft Auto IV. That certainly doesn't transfer over the Grand Theft Auto V, but IV I was king.
Alright, let's get back to some other gaming news, Loki.
I would totally go back to IV, too. I really do want to. Maybe I should pick that up on PS3.
Anyways, speaking of games and multiplayer, one of the games I thought was pretty awesome, Just Cause 2.
They had this multiplayer mod that was just fucking nuts on PC.
It allowed up to a thousand players at one time, if not more, playing together on one map in a game that was basically just single player.
And they're doing it again.
Just Cause 3 multiplayer. They haven't put out any sort of release date or anything like that or an ETA, but the mod team is working on it.
They had some early footage they showed kind of displaying some of the racing that they did and everything.
I think it's going to be awesome.
If it's anything like Just Cause 2 multiplayer was, it's a complete mess.
It's just chaos, but it's fun chaos, and I can't wait to try it out.
Hopefully on a more powerful PC they can actually probably run that game.
Well, thanks modders for making that available, right?
And seriously, if this mod team can optimize the game enough to have multiple people running around in it, could the developer maybe shorten the load time some? Maybe?
Maybe.
Alright, let's talk about a game that, you know, I don't think we've really talked about enough when it comes to 2015 games.
And I finally picked up my copy of this game, and I will play it in the next couple weeks.
Cause I've heard nothing but great things about Rise of the Tomb Raider.
And of course Rise of the Tomb Raider was an Xbox One exclusive, and so it kind of limited the number of people who I think were able to play that game.
But, some folks have been waiting for the inevitable PC release or even the Playstation 4 release.
Well, I got nothing on the Playstation 4, but apparently Rise of the Tomb Raider due for the PC in January, and that's according to the Steam listing.
How many times are we going to bring up Steam on the night show?
Square Enix not confirmed the date yet, however they did mention back in July that PC and Windows 10 editions, which I think that's kind of the same thing, but that's what they said, would be early 2016, and the PS4 version would be late 2016.
So apparently, January would be early 2016, and it's after the holiday period that I'm sure Microsoft wanted that exclusive arrangement for the Xbox One for.
So, there you go. There is a Steam page up, and it shows everything there for Rise of the Tomb Raider, all the marketing text, so we'll see.
We'll see if this shows up closer to the end of the month, and I'm sure a lot of people will be checking that out.
I've heard a lot of really great things about that game. I will check that out hopefully in the next week, if not the next two weeks.
Dungeon Buster in our chat over at live.vognetware.com, echoing Rise of the Tomb Raiders. Good stuff.
Alright, let's go on, DarkSakura.
Oh, yeah. Well, you want to talk about shitty? It's not getting paid. You know, it's even more shitty? Not getting paid on Christmas.
So, basically, that's what happened with the employees who worked for Firefall developer Red5.
They found a letter instead.
Hi, team. I regret to inform you that Red5 currently does not have the funds necessary to meet our payroll scheduled for today, Friday, December 25th.
Due to this, there will not be payroll paid this week. Red5 and The9, our parent company, is currently working to resolve this during the holidays as soon as possible.
We are hopeful we'll be able to resolve this and update the team immediately.
And it was confirmed, they actually, Red5 did promise to pay, but there's no notice on if they actually have by now.
So, let's hope so, but that probably means that Red5 is pretty much going to be in the red.
SSG100MaddenChat says, what a bunch of grinches.
Well, if you can't pay, you can't pay, but even so, you should have like some sort of credit to pull from or some other.
Yeah. This doesn't seem legal. Is Red5 here in the States or are they overseas?
They're in Oklahoma, I think.
That just, I mean, if you leave a company, don't they have to pay you within like 48 hours or something?
It seems very strange that they can just be like, oops, payroll doesn't happen today.
I don't know if they were left with any other, I'd have to check the laws on that one, but I mean.
I mean, if there's no money, there's no money, I suppose.
It's a contract regardless.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, at will or nothing, they give you something that says you will be paid on X and X.
Right.
You know, in the amount of whatever your pay rate is.
So, that could technically be a massive breach of contract. So, regardless.
Well, that is a really cruddy way to have, especially on the holidays.
I mean, I realize some timings can't be controlled, but it's still kind of one of those.
You got to look at the executive management at Red 5 and be like, how did you let it get into this situation in the first place?
So, well, our thoughts with the frontline employees there who are most affected by this.
And Dungeon Busters in chat saying, yeah, Firefall's development has been pretty rocky.
Hopefully, they find a way through it. Hopefully, a miracle financer or something.
That comment from live.vognetwork.com.
And Dark Soccer, I believe you are actually about to step out on us here too?
I am. Probably in a minute.
Because you've got work things going on, so.
Yeah, I'm just, got to be up, you know, stupidly dirt early in the morning.
I understand. I understand. Well, did you, before you head out, do you want to give us your final thought for the night?
It's going to get, it's slightly political, but I'm just going to say this.
For everyone who complains about things going on in the country, if you don't get out there and put some effort into it, they will never change.
For all the people who say, X person can't win, if you don't vote, they won't win. That's it.
There is an old adage that's not even political. It's just, if I always do what I've always done, I'm always going to get the same result. So.
Well, then there's also Einstein, you know, the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results.
Is that how we keep doing this show for 14 years?
Well, we haven't expected different results. So, you know, if we suddenly expect, oh, next week's show will be famous.
Yeah, we're going to be famous. We're going to make money.
Yeah, that shit ain't happening. So, but anyway, um, yeah.
Also though, um, probably starting next week is I'm planning on just doing random, um, Twitch streams just for shits.
We'll see if that happens, if I can get my headset working. So, cause it's been kind of antsy with my new sound card.
All right. Good luck to you. I know that's, that's something I want to do more of in 2016, but I said that last year and look how well that went, but I'm in a much better, I'm in a much better place this year than last year.
I would love to do streaming if, you know, my talking in the living room while my wife is doing whatever would annoy her.
I, I will say this much for 2016, I do want to get into the streaming things, but my, my, my first priority is getting podcast number two off the ground.
And that's all I'm going to say about that for now. All right. Uh, let's move on with some more stories.
Have a good night, Dark Sakura. And, uh, thank you as always for being here and good luck with work in the morning.
We'll see you next, uh, in two Sundays. Holy shit. You suck for going to Disneyland, but at the same time, bring me back a pin or something. Okay.
All right. Yay. Thank you. And give hugs for Victoria and all that. I will. All right. All right. Uh, let's get into some other, uh, stories. Loki.
This is extremely exciting. Fantasy Star Online 2 is finally coming to the West as anime. As an anime. You wooed too early.
No, I wooed anyway.
Yes. Unfortunately, even though they do have an English version of the game available in Asian regions, they're not bringing it over here, but, uh, they will be putting out the anime. So there's that to look forward to.
You know, we had to cut some stories for time last week. And one of them was actually about how PlayStation, uh, or PlayStation Fantasy Star Online 2 is coming out for the PlayStation 4 in Japan.
And, uh, it was going to be an opportunity for me to say, what the fucking hell, Sega? Why do you keep withholding this shit from the States? And now this is even getting worse. Okay, so we're getting the anime now? And we still can't get the game?
They probably will bring the game out over here, because what the hell is Sega releasing for console, aside from, like, a Sonic game?
It seems like if they've already got an English version of the game available, that would be an easy, that'd be pretty easy. Just bring it over.
Well, uh, speaking of Sonic games, uh, there very well could be a Sonic game on the way for this year. I mean, I guess that seems kind of obvious, but, uh, Crush 40, uh, music that, uh, appears in different Sonic games, and, you know, Crush 40 goes right along with the Sonic series.
Uh, and, uh, they were talking on Facebook, and actually said something in a comment on Facebook, which then got deleted, so you kind of have to wonder, did they say too much?
Well, thanks to the internet, the comment's been preserved for all the time, and the comment was,
We are planning a few performances for 2016 to commemorate the anniversary of Sonic. We might participate in writing new songs for the anniversary game. Stay tuned.
Well, then the post was deleted, but it made a lot of people go, what's the anniversary game? After all, this year is Sonic's 25th anniversary, uh, so maybe there's something special, maybe-
Hopefully good.
I feel like if they say an anniversary game, it's going to be like Sonic 1 with new HD graphics. It's the same game you played before.
Well, it's, like, anniversary almost seems like Sonic Generations at that point, I think.
I guess that's true.
I mean, that was kind of as close to, like, a new-meets-old type of thing, but, I don't know.
Yeah.
Hopefully something good.
I guess we will see what comes of it, but I'm sure- Will a Sonic game be released this year? Of course it will. It's Sega. There's gonna be something.
SSJ100MattInChat says, it's going to be Sonic 25th anniversary edition with friends. Oh, yay, I can play-
With even more friends.
With even more friends. I can now replay Sonic 1 as all of Sonic's shitty friends, and maybe it'll be on the Wii U and there'll be amiibo for all these characters.
Amiibo for the shitty friends.
There is a Sonic amiibo, so why not all the shitty friends as well? We'll see. Anyway.
Let's get to the mailbag.
Or not, because nobody sent us an email this week, but usually you would send your emails to participate at orangeloungeradio.com.
I'm not even supposed to be here today. I'm leaving.
That's why I said bye to you before the mailbag, because I'm like, there's no email.
Yeah, whatever.
I may as well say something while I'm still here waiting for my computer to shut down.
Alright, so no emails. You should berate the listeners into sending emails.
Do it!
Participate.
Do the thing. Make it happen.
At orangeloungeradio.com if you want to.
Rob, we need an email that's just called Fuckin' Do It.
And it redirects to the mailbag.
No, because then it would just be like Shia LaBeouf memes coming through. Do it!
No, I wasn't even listening to- you know, I've never actually seen one of those, except for like little shitty screen captures that are on Tumblr.
Of course, if it's a meme, of course it found its way to Tumblr at some point.
I love the sticker for my computer.
Yes, it's very rainbowy. I like it.
I have the Rainbow Apple sticker on my Mac.
Alright, look. We need to get to the FUs of the week.
I have an FU.
Well, then I better cue the music.
Starting off with the one we already said goodbye to.
Hey. FU. That's it.
Oh, that's it? F me? Oh.
No, um, FU to feeling like I'm tired, but having endless brain energy.
So, FU to a busy mind. With no outlet.
Alright. Loki?
You know, it's weird. I had a really specific FU driving over here today, but I don't remember what it is now.
Because I got too angry at the old people driving really slow in front of me.
But there was something else, and I'm trying to think what it was.
Something in general that was bothering me.
But I don't remember, so it's going to have to wait for another week instead.
We're just going to have to say FU to old people who are driving really fucking slow on the road.
And, um, uh, yeah. I guess that's it.
And, um, yeah.
Alright, um, FU to the fact that my holiday break seemed so short this year.
And that's probably because I've been spoiled in years past.
Because my old company would give us the time off between...
Well, they didn't give it to us, but we pretty much always took the time between Christmas and New Year's off.
And I wasn't able to do that this year.
And don't get me wrong, I love the new job, and I don't mind having to work the extra time.
But, yeah, it just kind of shut the...
I don't know, it just feels weird having only had a few days off here during this holiday period.
But I know, you know, cry me a river.
I know some of you out there are working retail on holidays and so forth.
So, I probably have nowhere to complain.
But, just, you know, I kind of got used to it over the past few years.
And that changed this past year.
So, I'm kind of like, oh gosh, I'm so busy at work this next week.
It's going to be crazy.
And I'm sure a lot of people are in that mindset, too, coming back from the holidays.
So, FU in advance to the craziness that is sure to be next week.
Alright, just a couple more stories for you guys.
Then we're going to open up the Skype line at 1877 Game OLR, or our username on Skype, Orange Lounge Radio.
All one word.
Let's get to Loki.
Alright, so there was, I guess, a new lightning talk by Failoverflow.
It's a hacking team that was responsible for some of the hacks on PlayStation 3.
Now, during the 32nd Chaos Communication Congress, they were showing off Linux on a PlayStation 4.
And, you know, basically what they're developing right now is it's a kind of a spinoff of FreeBSD.
And it's, they're basically trying to utilize all of the hardware on the PlayStation 4 to even maybe possibly run actual PC games on it.
Like modern PC games and maybe even use it like as a Steam box.
So, they're not sharing like the, you know, exploits on how to hack the PlayStation 4 yet.
But they're saying that it's so easy to do that basically people will bring their own exploits and they'll have this Linux version that'll be available.
But it has been shown that they can do that, so they're working on Linux kernel patches.
And they're not releasing the exploits, but they're saying certain other people will.
Hmm. It'll hit the internet any day now and then it'll be impossible to take off.
This is very interesting considering the PlayStation 3's controversy where you could have Linux on it and then they patched it out.
But some people never grabbed that patch, so are running Linux on PlayStation 3s to this day.
So, interesting.
Interesting.
And Dar Tetsuya in chat says, I don't think there's been a Sony system yet that they haven't hacked.
Tigerclaw gives us a link here and I thought for some reason this was in our show world tonight, but it's not.
But it's right along the same vein as the Linux on PlayStation 4, but that is the Windows 95 running on a 3DS.
Did you see that one?
Yeah.
Somebody was running Windows 95 on a 3DS.
I mean, it wasn't, I don't think I actually saw a desktop come up, but it was kind of checking the boot table and all this stuff.
It was kind of weird to see.
But I mean, the technology in a handheld device kind of exceeds what we had in computers back in the mid-90s.
Oh yeah, got it.
So, I mean, think about what's in an iPhone or an Android device. I mean, that's...
They had multi-core processors and stuff running it, like, you know, over a gigahertz and everything.
And, you know, at one time we had a processor running at 20 megahertz.
16 megahertz was considered lightning fast.
And, you know, with a whopping 4 gigs of RAM, or 1 gig of RAM.
Yeah, or 512k.
512k, yeah. So, I mean...
I feel like Windows 95 ran on my 486 100 megahertz machine, which was blazing fast at the time.
And it's like, that's nothing compared to what you carry around in your pocket these days.
It's crazy how...
Got a Pentium.
Think about it. And the desktops you have now are going to be nothing compared to 20 years from now.
That's what growing up has taught you.
Not even 20 years. Probably like 5 years, 10 years.
Probably. And so, yeah, it wasn't much, but it's just kind of that novelty of an entire PC operating system running on a DS like that.
Wouldn't it be crazy though? Because they're saying it's so close to a PC that they're getting 3D acceleration working.
And they're just having some issues with certain things, but they're...
I mean, they could possibly get this. They're actually running PC games on it.
I mean, that's kind of crazy.
I mean, that... There you go. Cheap Steam Box. $400.
Alright. Well, last but not least on our show world tonight.
Kind of a sadder story as I'm sure many of you heard in this past week that Lemmy from Motorhead passed away suddenly this past week.
And I mean suddenly the poor guy was diagnosed with cancer and then passed away from it like two days later.
It was crazy. So a good old hearty fuck cancer for all of that.
But why would I bring this up on a video game podcast?
Well, because it has kind of had talk of the Koopa Kooplings circle around again.
And this is actually from Nintendo product manager Dave Brooks who mentioned that music has always been a big part of my life.
I've been a DJ for years and have been a music collector for even longer.
When I first saw the group of seven Kooplings, music was on my mind.
The hairstyle on one of them reminded me of Ludwig von Beethoven for some reason and Ludwig von Koopa was born.
Next was the one with the glasses. That has to be Roy Koopa in homage to Roy Orbison who almost always wore glasses.
Then Wendy O Koopa or Wendy O Williams and Iggy Koopa or Iggy Pop.
One looked like a Loudmouth so he was Morton Koopa Jr. from the Loudmouth talk show host Morton Downey Jr.
And then there was Larry. There's no real world equivalent. He's not Larry Mullen Jr. from U2 or Larry King. He just looked like a Larry.
But that brings us to Lemmy. In addition to being a great name, it's perfect for a video game character.
This Koopling struck me as being the kind of character who would do his own thing no matter what anyone else thought.
I think it was those crazy eyes. Lemmy Koopa was in the crew.
So that being posted by Nintendo product manager Dave Brooks in honor of Lemmy passing away this past week.
So rest in peace.
What's kind of sad is Dark Soccer and I before the show were kind of going over that list.
It was like, wow, all of these people are just because you know Wendy O Williams and that's different than the Wendy Williams that's on TV. How you doing?
Wendy O Williams was a punk rock and she tragically committed suicide several years ago.
So like all those people in that list, many of them have passed. Iggy Pop I know is still alive.
But yeah, very, very tragic. So there you go.
William Ritterface in chat says, I remember hearing somewhere that he knew for a while and that he played through it. Interesting.
And Tiger Claw points out and Natalie Cole died as well. Yeah, tragic loss.
And although nothing to do with games per se, it does lend to that old adage that these things unfortunately tend to come in threes.
Alright, we are going to open up the Skype line though if you want to give us a call.
1877 Game OLR, our username on Skype. Orange Lounge Radio, all one word.
Our Skype is fixed by the way. I talked about this a little bit on Bobby's show, but I guess I didn't get into it here on OLR.
But you know, I was bitching and moaning and complaining about Skype not working the past couple weeks because I decided to upgrade to the latest version and it broke and it wouldn't connect.
And I tried to revert to old versions and they wouldn't connect.
Well get this you guys, do you know what the fix ended up being for this? All I had to do to fix it?
And remember, we run Windows XP on the show computer in here and you might be thinking like, isn't that kind of old?
And the answer is yes, it is kind of old. But I'm very much of the old adage, if it ain't broke, don't fix it.
We've been doing this podcast for 14 years, so XP works with Shoutcast and Audition and everything we need to run the show, so I don't tend to upgrade things.
But when Skype always nags you, upgrade me, upgrade me. Inevitably I one day have a moment of weakness and I click yes and I paid for it.
So what ended up being the solution? Well I'm sitting here thinking, alright I'm just going to have to do it, I'm going to have to upgrade the damn computer to Windows 7.
But then I was, or even possibly 10 if it would run it, I wasn't sure and I was even looking at maybe getting some new parts for the machine to compensate.
But it ended up, I did a search on some various forums and I had done this the past couple weeks but I tried again this past week and somebody said,
do you have Internet Explorer 8 installed on your machine because the latest version of Skype requires Internet Explorer 8 or newer?
And sure enough, on this computer I only had Internet Explorer 6. Now you might be screaming at me, Rob, why on earth are you using Internet Explorer 6 in the year 2016?
And my answer is, I wasn't ever using Internet Explorer. If I have to actually explore the Internet, we use Firefox here on the show computer, I use Chrome on my personal computer, I don't really use Internet Explorer ever.
So why would I upgrade it to a newer version? It would be nonsense. But that ended up being it. I was able to find a website that had, because I didn't want to upgrade all the way to,
because actually in XP it wouldn't upgrade. I would try to go into the upgrade thing and it would be like, sorry, support for Windows XP has ended.
So finally I went into an archive site that has old versions of operating stuff and I actually found a copy of Internet Explorer 8 and I downloaded it and installed it and Skype worked right away.
That's all what it was. William Murderface in chat says, it's also not getting security updates anymore. Yeah, I know all that about XP, but again, I'm pretty sure this machine can run Windows 7.
I just have to make sure it doesn't screw things up. You know what I mean? Again, this works right now. I don't want to shut down the whole show because I have a botched upgrade.
So I'm just nervous about that kind of stuff. Anyway, we are getting a call on the line, so let's get to it. Hi, you're on Orange Launch Radio. Who's this?
The first caller of 2016. Woohoo! Our first call. What's up, DJ Rom? Not much, Rom. How are you?
I am doing well. I mean, it's that whole like, oh bummer, I gotta go back to work tomorrow. But you know, I like my job and I can't sit around the house all day doing nothing because believe it or not, that's kind of what I did Friday and Saturday and that got really old.
Well, you were at home relaxing. I was at work, so you know, fun stuff.
That's why I try not to complain too much because I know there are people out there working hard on the holidays. So how was that? How'd that go for you?
Pretty good, but then again, I really have nothing bad to say about my job because I absolutely love it.
Good. I think it's important to love your job. So at least hopefully more people are starting out 2016 enjoying it and if you're not enjoying what you're doing, you can always try and look for something better. There's nothing wrong with trying. So my advice.
But anyway, what did you call in about tonight?
I want to talk about something cool that happened at my job yesterday, but before I get into that, I just also want to say happy birthday, big boy.
Thank you. It's not actually my birthday, but it's my birthday show.
But close enough.
Close enough. It was my half birthday the day after Christmas, so that's close enough, right?
Even better.
Well, thank you for that. I appreciate that. What else is on your mind?
We had another charity event at my job yesterday.
Nice. For what this time?
Hearthstone.
Oh, get out. That's pretty cool. What's going on with that?
Well, it was held by another esports group called Esports Hero Inc. and we set up the theater area of our store for about 32 players, but it got jam-packed pretty quickly, so pretty much we were raising funds for Extra Life and as well as playing that awesome card game, Hearthstone.
That's really cool. So it was another Extra Life fundraiser.
Yeah, pretty much.
Cool. How long did it go for? Was it like an all-day, all-night thing or was it just during the business hours?
It started early in the evening. This was around 6, but they changed the plan, so it started around 4.30, 5 o'clock, and it went for the next four hours, but unfortunately I wasn't able to stay for the whole thing because I was already working towards the end of my shift.
Now, does your store have like a Twitch channel or some type? I mean, maybe you have an internal thing with your company where people can watch all this stuff go down?
I don't think we have an official Twitch channel, but all the Twitch streams are run by other people, so like Esports Hero, they have their own Twitch stream that they want, and when we did our first Extra Life charity, that was held by Extra Life NYC.
It was their Twitch stream, and then when other people came in, we patched it over to each of their streams so they could have fun with that too.
Got it. Well, that makes sense that the people who are sponsoring it run it on their own stream.
Hey, can I ask you a completely random question about your work?
Sure.
Because you know, in the past couple weeks, I finally went out to the damn movies, which I haven't done in like over a year. So they had this commercial and it was so interesting.
Because that's what they do now, they show commercials at the movie theater, because as if paying 13 bucks to see a movie wasn't enough.
And so they have this commercial where all the employees of the Microsoft store start, like they walk down in front of the Apple store and they start singing Christmas carols or something.
And then there's, I don't know, there's all these little kids there too who I don't think are employees, but they were probably all paid anyway.
But yeah, so I just, and I was like, ooh, can I see Rama? Is Rama going to be in this? Or were they all paid actors? I don't even know.
But did you, do you know what commercial I'm talking about?
Yes, and I just want you to know, I'm getting very giddy about this because this is a fun story I like to tell if I have the time.
Well, we got time tonight. Our phones aren't exactly lighting up, so please, if you want. I know telling about work stories can sometimes be sensitive, but whatever you feel comfortable with.
It's cool. So just so everybody knows, I work at the Microsoft flagship store on Fifth Avenue. I'm a flagship services advisor.
So pretty much you bring your computer in. I try to fix it in 15 minutes. If not, it goes in the back and we fix it and you come back in two days fixed and you'd be happy and you go about your way.
So here's the thing. In the beginning of, I believe, November, middle of November, email went out to all of the Microsoft stores, flagship, full line and specialty, especially like the little mall kiosks you see.
And they were asking for all the employees to submit a 30 second demo of them singing their favorite Christmas song.
So I decided not to do it because I'm tone deaf and if you don't believe me, ask Mako-chan. She can verify this.
Fair enough.
So that Sunday, they filmed the commercial in our store. I was nowhere to be seen because I was in back of house fixing computers, even though I've had people message me saying they swore up and down they saw me in the commercial somewhere. I'm just like, no, I was back of house.
No, that was another tall black guy that you saw the commercial somewhere.
That was probably my friend's stretch. But they did film the commercial in the first floor. Now, later in the day, word traveled up towards the back that they were going up to the Apple store and we're like, why aren't you going to the Apple store?
We didn't even know that part was happening. So pretty much what you saw in that commercial were all Apple employees from the Fifth Avenue flagship and people wearing the Microsoft shirts. Those are employees from not just the New York City stores. Those are from people from all over the country that they were flown in for this commercial.
Oh, so they were in fact, they were employees, not actors, but they were the cream of the crop singers.
Yes.
Oh, interesting. And probably half the people listening have no idea what we're talking about, but maybe, I don't know, I assume if I saw it before Star Wars, a lot of the other people probably saw it too.
I saw it too. I also shared the commercial on my personal Facebook and I've had people share it to me asking if I've seen this. I'm just like, y'all are a day late and a dollar short.
Now, I will say this, I wasn't convinced I saw you, but I was definitely looking for you the minute I realized what it was, because it's not very obvious at first what it is, but the minute I realized what it was, I'm like, oh, is Rama in there? Is he singing somewhere?
No, because if I was, I probably would have shouted that all over the place.
That's true. That's a good point. I appreciate that. All right, well, I'm glad we could talk commercials and so forth. Thank you for giving us the scoop on that little commercial there, but I thought it was cute. It was a cute little holiday thing.
Yeah, definitely. And when you and Alan get the studio PC up and running for Windows 10 standard, let me know. I can hook y'all up.
Well, I absolutely appreciate that because, yes, that was one other thing. I was like, I don't really want to pay for Windows 7 right now and Windows 10.
Well, I'm just saying, well, we get benefits for working at Microsoft, so I can hook you up with stuff.
I appreciate that immensely. I really do. So maybe that'll be something we do in 2016. Who knows? Especially, there's been a lot of demand to incorporate more video into the show. I don't know. We'll see, because having a fancier OS and more oomph in the computer system would allow us to do that. So that is, let's say it's not off the table. We'll see.
Let me just say this real quick. I'm going to get out of here. Brad from Poco which says 10 is free. Here's the thing. If you're already running Windows 7 or Windows 8, the upgrade to 10 is free. If your computer is running XP or Vista, you have to purchase a retail copy to get to 10. That's how it works.
I did look into that. I was like, oh, maybe I can upgrade to 10. And I was like, oh, yeah, you can't do it from XP. You can only do it from 7 and 8.
Right. So you have to go from XP to 7 and then from 7 to 10. Either way, you're still paying for a copy of Windows.
And when you go from 7 to 10, you pretty much keep everything. Because when I did it on my home computer, I got to admit, it was really easy. And I liked that it would save everything for 30 days and that I had a panic button if I didn't like what it did.
But I ultimately ended up keeping it. But it really kept everything the same. But they pretty much tell you, if you go from XP to 7, you're going to lose a lot of stuff.
You're going to do a clean installation of everything.
That worries me a little bit because if you saw this computer and the way it's held the show together like duct tape for the past 14 years, you would probably cry.
Trust me, trust me. I mean, my beast of a machine that's running Windows 7, I was hesitant for running to upgrade to 10 because I'm like, I don't want to do the upgrade and then find out 20 minutes before my show that nothing's working.
And I'd be screaming to the heavens.
If I do something like that, and it's a big if, it would probably be like when there's a week with no show. Like in February, although that would be a really bad time because I'm going to be in DC for MAGFest for most of that.
But there'll be some other case in 2016 where we won't have a show for a week. Maybe Dark Soccer and Loki will be gone one weekend or something. And that'll probably be the time I choose to upgrade the computer. But we'll see.
There you go.
Alright, well buddy, I'm going to let you go so we can try to squeeze in another caller too. Thanks so much for calling.
Awesome. Take care, bro.
Alright, you too. Bye.
Bye.
Yeah, Brad from Pod Culture in chat says, yeah, 10 is great. And DarkTacuya says, I'm glad I switched from 8.1 to 10 on my new laptop.
Yeah, that was, I remember now, that was my, a few of the week it was. 10 keeps fucking up my tablet drivers. And the reason, you know, or my touchpad drivers.
So, like now whenever I'm moving around and if like I try to right click or click on anything, the cursor fucking jumps all over the place. It's way too sensitive.
It's so interesting to me, the opinions on 10. People really love it or they hate it.
I just don't like that it keeps updating my shit. Like I had everything perfect and then like it goes and redoes everything. Like the last time I updated it was like I reinstalled Windows and all this shit is broken or back to the way it was again.
Rama's suggesting in chat the latest 8.1 drivers. Maybe you can, I don't know.
Well, I'm on 10, so.
But I think the point is 10 will still recognize the 8 drivers.
No, I understand that. I just have to reinstall everything again or uninstall whatever. Because they keep putting.
It can't be as bad as these Skype issues I had.
Because they keep installing two sets of drivers for that and it fucks it all up.
We got another call coming in, so we got to get to this. But I do want to give you a chance for last minute stories after this. But first we have a call on the line.
Hi, you're on Orange on the Train. Who's this?
Chugga chugga chugga choo choo!
Train takes 2016, bitches.
Oh my gosh, I'm so happy we get to start off the new year with you, Jim Sally on the Jim Sally train. What is up, my friend?
Not too much, man. I got really cold here in the last week.
You don't say?
I heard you guys had fucking snow on Christmas Day. In California, Northern California, there was snow on Christmas Day.
I went to fucking Tilsonburg, where my wife comes from. No fucking snow.
Actually, when you hear about that, you're probably hearing about Lake Tahoe, which technically is in Northern California, but it's also on top of a mountain.
Down here in SAC, no snow.
I think the only time it snowed that I can remember in the last ten years, it looked like Mother Nature just went achoo!
And that was the snow that fell. We don't get...
Even you see what's going on in Portland right now and all that, we don't get anything like that. That just doesn't happen here in the valley.
But we're in a valley, we're at sea level, so it doesn't lend itself to those type of snowstorms.
But yeah, when you see White Christmas in Northern California, I think they were showing that because of El Nino.
The East Coast was having a huge heatwave, right?
So not a lot of areas had a White Christmas, but here in California, it actually has been, by our standards, our California standards, really fucking cold.
It's been something like 20 degrees Fahrenheit overnight, which I know you're probably laughing at right now, but for us, we're not used to that.
When you live here, you get used to the 105 degree Fahrenheit days of heat and all that stuff.
You just learn to deal with that, but you never learn to deal with 20 degree cold and all that stuff.
Fuck dude, I live in 8 hours. I live 12 hours north of Buffalo.
And when I drove down south, I had my winter tires on, I had my fucking studs in, I was ready for winter and I didn't see a flake of snow.
My little girl, my little four-year-old girl, she looked at me when we were halfway home and she said,
Daddy? I said, yeah, little girl? She said, is Santa Claus mad at me? I said, honey, why would you say that?
She said, Daddy, he didn't bring any snow for me this year and I just wanted snow.
It was fucking, it was heartbreaking, man. It was fucking heartbreaking.
Aw, well, I'm sure there will be plenty of snow. He's just a little late in bringing the snow because he's going to bring a lot of it in February.
I've only got a lot of it now. When I got home, there was a lot of it here. It was so nice to come home.
There was a little bit of snow on the ground and the whole family's in the big gigantic Jim Sally truck.
And I said, honey, I said, look at that grassy field. And she said, baby, you do it. I said, yes, I'm going to do it.
And the little kids say, what's going to happen? And Daddy just starts doing donuts in the cornfield.
Oh, fucking donuts in the cornfield for Christmas.
And by the way, Jim Sally actually has on his Skype icon a picture of him and his children.
And you guys are just, you guys are so adorable and you look like you're teaching him something or I don't know the way you're kind of posed there.
So it's this adorable picture.
I can't even see my own picture.
It's probably in your Skype setting somewhere.
Oh, dude, that's me. I'm making them snacks. I like to fucking feed them vegetables and shit in the daytime. They're vegetable bowls.
That's good. Vegetables are healthy.
Yes. By the way, I just want to point this out because SSJ in our chat room over at live.vognetwork.com says, just keep the snow away from MAGFest weekend.
Oh, God, do I agree. I do not want to deal with fucking airport delays. Try to get in and out of Washington, D.C.
And I do. Oh, my God. Like I bitched enough at PAX East. Like, don't do that shit to me.
I'm kind of paranoid about that for MAGFest, but I'm not going to rent a car in D.C.
I will just fucking Lyft or Uber or whatever they use out there to the hotel or fucking ugly bag somebody to pick me up in the snow.
I just Uber it, man. I'll be done with it.
You deserve it.
Well, what's on your mind tonight? What do you want to call in about?
I was going to reveal Jim Salley's 2015 game of the year.
Please. What was Jim Salley's 2015 game of the year?
It's very important for me for everyone to realize that Jim Salley's 2015 game of the year doesn't mean it came out in 2015.
It just means it's the game that I enjoyed playing the most in 2015.
That's OK. We all set the rules that work for our lifestyles.
Dark Sakura picked Dragon Age, and she's allowed to do that.
Jim Salley's 2015 game of the year for 2015 is Mass Effect 2.
Mass Effect 2.
That should be the game of the year every year. I mean, when P.T. is ineligible.
Mass Effect 2, which I believe they gave away on PlayStation Plus a couple months ago.
But OK, why Mass Effect 2 now? What would it be about five years after its release?
What made that your 2015 game of the year?
Well, originally I started I Keep Hearing You and Dark Sakura.
Tatsuya. Talk about it all the time. You know Jamie.
Of course.
Of course, I never played it on the 360. And sure enough, I had a bunch of Christmas money and there was the trilogy and it was fucking 20 bucks brand new for all three games.
I said, ship that to my house. And I had a lot of shit go down this year. I had a lot of shit go down this year in my life.
A lot of fucking lonely nights at home. Fucking sometimes I would I would kind of escape in that shepherd reality, you know, I made my little character.
And the nice thing, too, if people don't know about the Mass Effect games, like you make one character in game one, that's your fucking character.
Like you carry that bitch through the whole all three games. And I carried her through and we got to Mass Effect 2.
And it was mind blowing how many side characters you could have played with you.
And each side character had this fucking really awesome little story.
And you didn't have to do it, but I fucking did every single little side story.
Some of them I got on my side. Some of them didn't like me so much because my chick was a bit of a ruthless bitch.
But hey, that's who she was. You know what I mean? She needed to save the universe.
That is such a good point about what makes Mass Effect something that part of the reason why we obsess over it is because you do get so invested in that character.
And you're right, that character that you make in Mass Effect 1, you transfer them and all that decisions, if you want, to Mass Effect 2 and then Mass Effect 3.
Some of the customizations of the face might weirdly change between the games.
But for the most part, your character is your character and the decisions you make certainly have a huge impact.
Especially, and I'm trying to keep this spoiler free for a five year old game, but especially some of the decisions you make at the end of Mass Effect 2 have huge consequences for what's going to happen in Mass Effect 3.
Holy shit, it was unbelievable. I will say, when I got to Mass Effect 3, it was a little bit, I don't know, it didn't quite have that fucking pop that Mass Effect 2 had.
Yeah, I love Mass Effect 3 for what it is, but I also, I understand to a point the disappointment where when you're carrying that character from 1, 2, and 3, that the original ending of 3 really hinged on one decision that you made at the very, very, very end.
And that's why the extended cut DLC, which hopefully you were able to see...
Yes, I heard all that.
Okay, good. Because that incorporates much more where you can see the effects of other decisions you made will be incorporated into the ending and that's what made it so much better is that you weren't just seeing one decision, you were seeing all decisions.
Yes, I did get all the extra content, even the online from Mass Effect 2, which is passable. I wouldn't, I don't know.
It seems like something they slapped on because they were told that they had to have so many check marks underneath the new options for the next game.
There wasn't anything.
I like the multiplayer, but it's kind of died out now a few years later. There's really not a lot of people playing it anymore and the people who are playing it are uber. They're too extreme, you know, so...
By the time I got to it, yeah, it would have been pretty thin.
Alright, well...
For the year too, so now I got this awesome trilogy copy of Mass Effect 3 sitting on my desk that I'm never going to play again. It's old.
So if anyone wants it, send me a fucking Twitter. Send a Twitter to Jim Sally on Twitter or Jim Sally on Facebook or Jim Sally's iPod at gmail.com.
And I will put all the names in the ballot and my birthday's at the end of the month and I'll randomly pick a name on my birthday and you'll win an autographed copy of the Mass Effect trilogy for the Xbox 360. I'll autograph it. I'll write whatever you want on it.
I love it.
And send it to you. You can enjoy Shepard for all of her goodness too that she had in here, right?
I love it. It's like the Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants except it's the Sally Hood of the Mass Effect 3 or Mass Effect trilogy.
I think that's great that you're passing the game forward to others who maybe haven't experienced it yet, you know?
And with Andromeda, a lot more people are going to be talking about Andromeda after E3 this year. So now's a good time to check it out, I suppose.
Alright. Well, Jim Sally, my friend, I got to let you go so we can wrap up the show but it's always a delight to hear from you. Thanks so much.
Rob, I love you, man. You guys take care, okay? Take care, man. I miss you, buddy.
Alright, I miss you too. Have a great 2016. We'll talk to you again.
Later, brother.
Alright, bye.
Alright, I think I am going to go ahead and close up the Skype line now over at our Skype line.
If you didn't get through, fill up that mailbag. You heard how sad it was tonight.
Participate at orangeloungeradio.com.
Check in with Loki real quick before we wrap up for the night for any last minute news.
No.
I looked hard and nothing.
I did have to really kind of scrape the barrel to throw together a show for tonight because it was still technically a holiday week.
But as we continue into the next week, we're going to be back in full swing and I think we're going to start getting more and more news.
PAX East, actually no, that's always out this year. It's going to be more like April.
So I don't know when the first, maybe Game Developers Conference will come up in a couple months.
That's when we start to get a little bit of an idea of what's happening.
I mean, Game Developers Conference, again, not a trade show and not the big bells and whistles you see at those types of shows.
But we have had minor announcements. I believe PlayStation Home was announced at GDC one year.
So we may get something from that and I think things are going to start to wrap up as we get back into the game releases and so forth.
Oh, thank you. Everybody in chat is shouting Consumer Electronics Show. Thank you.
That is, I often forget about that one because there isn't a huge focus on games per se.
But we have had, like Microsoft announced Game Room at Consumer Electronics Show.
So we may see more, I know, I know a lot. But still, we may see something, little slivers of things come out of Consumer Electronics Show.
Especially with the VR stuff. We were talking about the beginning of the show, VR and AR.
We may get an update on the HoloLens. We may see a little more about that at CES.
So that is really soon. I think that's next week, actually, or two weeks.
I'd love to go to that one of these days, but I've already got a filling up calendar of expos to go to this next year.
So it's going to be pretty crazy, but I'm excited about it.
Thank you guys, of course, for being here, as always.
And we will be back in seven days to do this all over again.
I'm hoping to book some guests, too, some more indie developers to come on and talk about their games.
If you are or you know someone who wants to pitch a product here on Orange Launch Radio, a game that we should be checking out,
you can feel free to contact me, Rob, at vognetwork.com.
That's Rob at vognetwork.com.
I would prefer to spotlight things that actually have something out there that the listeners can go play and go check out.
So hopefully your game is to that point.
But yeah, I would love to get more developer interviews on here and so forth.
So anyway, that's going to do it for another episode of Orange Launch Radio.
If you enjoyed what you heard here at the show, please tell a friend or two about the show.
Help us spread the word about the show where every gamer has a voice,
because we can't talk about what they're saying if we aren't hearing the voices.
So we want to continue to bring you more voices throughout 2016.
If you really can't find anybody to tell, we also do really appreciate five-star reviews on podcasting websites such as iTunes or Stitcher Radio.
Those reviews go a very, very long way.
I can't tell you how much, especially on iTunes, the weight of those can really affect how you display on there.
So if you've never ranked the show on iTunes, we'd really appreciate you taking two minutes to go write a quick five-star review and say,
That brings us to the final thoughts for tonight.
Loki, good to have you back. We'll see you next week. Any final thoughts for our listeners tonight?
Yeah, Fallout 4 for 17% off on PlayStation Network, $49.79.
Oh really? I think it's cheaper on Steam right now with Steam sale too.
You can probably buy it cheaper, yeah. I don't know.
I was looking to see if they sell Need for Speed on there. I was thinking about getting it, but probably not.
It's not selling anymore, so definitely no right now.
I don't really have a lot of final thoughts as well. I just want to get to playing some more games this week, some more new stuff.
I still have Rise of the Tomb Raider I got to check out, Undertale sitting in my Steam library, and I still need to check that out.
Hoping to do some more live streams and play some more games in 2016. Let's make it a great year.
Have a good one everybody. Thanks for listening to Orange Launch Radio. Have a great week. We will see you next time for 627. Bye.
You've been listening to Orange Launch Radio. Orange Launch Radio is a production of OLR Studios.
To join us for a live show, tune into vognetwork.com Sunday nights at 6pm Pacific, 9pm Eastern.
The views and opinions expressed in this program do not necessarily reflect those of the staff of Orange Launch Radio or VOG Network, but you know they were all still true.
See you next week!
you